Churchill came to Palestine in 1921 to reassure the Palestinians that their rights were protected and that no harm would come to them from external forces.
All of this was a lie. In March 1921, Churchill met the leaders of Palestine at that time, including my father.
My father was one of those who met Churchill, and he told me that he stood with Churchill and said to him,
You are coming to turn us into an independent state, and we don't want you to bring Jewish immigrants to expel us from our homes.
He said to him, No, we don't mean that at all, and we ask you, this is what my father said, we ask you not to fight us and to stay calm.
I asked my father, Did you ask him for security and peace? He said, No, the security and peace of the country is in our hands. He asked us not to wage a revolution against him.
Good evening, and welcome to the podcast.
Last week, we didn't release an episode of the podcast in solidarity with the people of Palestine and as a protest to the crimes that are being committed against them daily.
However, our responsibility doesn't end there. As a platform, we have a duty to be of additional value to the Palestinian cause.
Today, we aimed to look at the cause from its roots. In the media, these days, there are many personalities, God bless them, who are doing more and more on this front.
They're analyzing, minute-by-minute and daily, the events and crimes committed against the people of Palestine.
However, today, we tried on Bidon Waraq to understand the roots of this issue and how it formed.
Who are the Zionists? What is the Zionist movement? What are its goals? What was the role of the British at that time?
What were the roles of the First and Second World Wars? How was the alliance with America before 1948?
What happened in 1948? Were the Palestinians randomly occupied and displaced? Or was it planned and engineered in a very strategic way?
We answered all these questions today with the guidance of our wonderful guest, Dr. Salman Abu Sitta.
Dr. Salman Abu Sitta specializes in the history of the Palestinian cause, and he's written many books,
one of the most important of which is the Atlas of Palestine, which historicises Palestine and maps the country before 1948, and after the Nakba, after 1948.
He answered many questions and clarified many angles so we can better understand the cause from its origins, so that we can hopefully deal with it in a better way.
And so, I hope you enjoy the episode.
I'm Faisal Al-Aqel, and this is the Podcast Bidon Waraq.
Thank you.
You've honoured us here.
Thank you. It's Wonderful.
Welcome, doctor.
God bless you.
How are you?
God bless you.
May God protect you.
And you.
God bless you.
Yes.
In the name of God, the most gracious, the most merciful.
While we were chatting, you told me your family is in Gaza at the moment.
Yes.
What's their situation?
It's a very difficult situation.
A very difficult situation.
My elder brother's house and my family's house were completely destroyed.
They escaped from it at the last moment.
They're now living with relatives in a place far from the city of Gaza. They're doing alright.
I have a nephew in Britain.
He's a surgeon at the University of London.
He left the university a week ago and went to Gaza.
Now, he's in Gaza, in Al-Shifa hospital, which is under bombardment.
He's performing surgery on hundreds of injured children and adults.
He's telling very painful stories.
Of children. A child arrives whose entire family has been killed.
The child doesn't even know his name.
No one's with him except for the ambulance team.
He has to call him Child Number 6.
This is the extent that Israeli barbarism has reached.
Nevertheless, they remain very steadfast.
A while ago, while we were coming here, I heard the Kuwaiti hospital in Rafah was warned to evacuate.
The director of the hospital announced that neither the doctors nor the patients would leave the hospital.
He said, We have a responsibility.
We have patients.
We won't leave them.
This courage. The courage to stay on the land, the homeland, and to defend the families and people is of epic proportions.
On the other hand, there is the Zionist barbarism.
This Zionist barbarism is not only as we see it on TV now.
In fact, it is rooted deep in the land at this point.
For example, let's take Gaza.
What is Gaza?
The area of Gaza is 365 square kilometers.
It's a fairly large area.
30x12 km.
However, it was filled in 1948 with the populations of 247 cities and villages.
The Jews attacked them with very large forces.
There were 160,000 soldiers across 9 military divisions.
They attacked Palestine.
In the south of Palestine, which is 50% of the area of Palestine,
they attacked 247 villages and cities and displaced them to the Gaza Strip in a large concentration camp.
The area of this concentration camp is 1% of the area of Palestine.
Their land had covered 50% of Palestine.
Can you imagine? Half the population is packed into 1% of the area of Palestine?
Of course, this displacement was not easy.
Because they carried out about 45 massacres.
They killed people.
They came to every village, in 1948, or city.
They attacked them with a large organized army.
Whose soldiers came originally from Europe.
They came from Russia, Poland, Ukraine, etc.
They attacked these small villages with organized force .
A village would have 50, 40, or 100 volunteers with outdated weapons.
They attacked these villages.
Those who did not leave, they slaughtered.
They left some alive.
And told them to inform the others that if they didn't leave, the same fate would befall them.
This is the reality that I want to emphasize.
Now, the population of Gaza, presently, is 2.3 million Palestinians.
As I said, the people of 247 villages.
These people see their lands with their own eyes.
The Jews, the Zionists, built a fortified wall with barbed wire, bombs, etc.
So that the Palestinians would stay in this large prison camp.
Of course, this is a war crime.
These young people in Gaza are the second or third generation of the people who were expelled, their fathers and grandfathers, from their land.
They can see their land with their own eyes.
Until now, it remains almost totally uninhabited.
The population density in Gaza is 7,000 per square kilometer.
7,000 per square kilometer.
As for the Zionist settlers who took the land, they make up 5 or 6 people per square kilometer.
This means that the land is empty.
The land that belonged to the refugees is empty.
Until now, there are 212 Zionist colonies.
The population is only 50,000 Zionists.
This is less than a portion of a refugee camp in Gaza.
These young people are defending their right to a homeland.
They demand their right to return.
We will talk about the right to return shortly.
Before we talk about the right to return, we want to take a step back to the past.
How did it start?
When these men broke through the Zionist's barrier, they invaded military bases and killed some of their leaders.
They breached a distance of 1,450 square kilometers.
Which is four times the area of Gaza.
How did we reach this situation?
Let's look at the historical perspective.
It's not really historical because our history is still present.
It's not based on old books.
During the First World War, the entire Arab world was part of the Ottoman Empire.
The Ottoman Empire had ruled this region and other non-Arab Islamic lands since 1517.
Before that, there were the Abbasid Empire, the Umayyad Empire, and the Rashid Caliphate.
The ascent of Islam.
Thus, we were always within the framework of an Islamic country.
During the First World War, the Western world, which is the European world, which is the world that's fighting us today,
They attacked the Ottoman Empire and occupied the lands it ruled.
They said to the Arabs,
We've liberated you from the Ottoman Empire.
Now, you will be independent.
How will you be independent?
We'll divide you into sectors and regions.
Some of them will be taken by the British and some by the French.
Sykes-Picot.
The Sykes-Picot Agreement.
We know now that the Sykes-Picot Agreement was a big deception.
However, it was a deception at that time as well.
They knew that it was a deception.
While Mark Sykes and George Picot were sitting at a table,
Carving up the Arab world like a cake between them.
They were throwing leaflets at the Arabs in the Levant and the Hejaz.
They said to them, when we expel the Turks, you will be independent.
However, at the same time, they were dividing these countries among themselves.
The English took Palestine and the east of Jordan.
The French took Lebanon and Syria.
They promised the Arabs that they would be independent.
However, at the same time,
and it was also a deception of the British and European colonialists.
At that time, the British Foreign Minister,
Lord Balfour, gave a promise to the Zionist Jews,
the European Jews, who had never been to Palestine and didn't know it.
He said to them, when we take possession of Palestine, we'll establish a Jewish state there.
This is what they called Balfour's promise.
Can we pause for a moment on the idea of Zionism?
Who are the Zionists?
What is the Zionist movement?
What are its goals?
Yes, the Zionist movement is a movement that was established in Europe
as a result of the conflict between the Jews of Europe and the states of Europe.
How?
At the beginning of the 19th century, during the time of Napoleon,
there was what was called emancipation. Liberation.
All these states became nation states.
Germany, Italy, France, and so on.
He would now say, I am French and my country is France.
When this movement started,
the Jews in Europe refused to be part of it.
They said, we're not Italians in Italy and we're not Germans in Germany.
We are Jews and we're different from them.
Therefore, there was a conflict between the European states and the Jews of Europe.
The European states wanted to be rid of the Jews.
The Jews wanted to be rid of these countries.
Palmerston, who was a British statesman at the beginning of the 19th century,
said, we can send the Jews to another country.
We'll be rid of them.
They want a state and we don't want them in our country.
They don't want to be here either.
Where's this country?
They said it's in Argentina.
They also said Tanganyika in East Africa.
They also suggested a region in Russia, which is still reserved for them to this day.
But when the British occupied Palestine,
this was a suitable opportunity for them to agree with the British Zionists
to make the Jews a national state in Palestine.
Balfour said, we agree to establish a national state for the Jews in Palestine.
What does that mean?
It means that Jews live in Palestine.
It was not mentioned or intended to be a state in Palestine.
It was not the transformation of Palestine into a Jewish state.
This was not announced.
Whereas it was intended, by the Jews.
What is strange is that the one who issued this promise,
Lord Balfour, the British Foreign Minister at that time,
was the biggest enemy of the Jews.
In 1905, many Jews from Russia fled to Western Europe and Britain.
Lord Balfour himself issued an anti-immigration law in 1905.
forbidding any Jew from entering Britain.
Imagine!
In 1917, he had the opportunity to turn this issue into a situation suitable for Britain.
He said, we don't want Jews in our country.
Let's send them to Palestine.
Let them be our colonial base in the Arab world.
First, they can defend the Suez Canal.
Second, let them be a military base for the West in the heart of the Arab world.
This is what happened from 1917 until today.
The proof is that if you look at a map of the Arab world,
you'll find that Palestine is in the heart of the Arab world.
You cannot go from Cairo, which was a big capital,
to Damascus, another old capital, unless you pass through Palestine.
If you cut this line, by taking control of Palestine and turning it into a colonial colony,
then you have crossed the East and the West.
Therefore, you have control over all these places.
Secondly, Palestine is on the Mediterranean Sea.
It's also on the Red Sea.
Therefore, it connects Asia, Africa, and Europe at a single point.
The choice was made on purpose.
Therefore, when the Balfour Declaration was issued,
and Palestine was occupied by Britain in 1917,
the British authorities began to allow Jews from Europe to immigrate.
At that time, there were only about 13,000 Arab Jews in Palestine,
as they are present in Syria, Morocco, and other places.
There were no European Jews at that time.
At that time, there was a claim that Palestine was a land without a people.
Or a large part of it was without a people.
Yes.
This is the deception that was invented in Europe in the 19th century.
We want to go from your countries to a land without a people.
This is the deception, that we are a land without a people.
This is the deception that was invented in Europe in the 19th century.
This is the deception that was invented in Europe in the 19th century.
In reality, no European politician with an ounce of common sense can accept this.
The reason is simple.
At that time, Palestine had 1,200 cities and villages.
In the 19th century, dozens of travellers,
priests, tourists, officers, and intelligence officers
Made maps of Palestine.
One of them is the British mission that came to Palestine from 1871-1877.
It compiled a large work of 12 volumes and 26 maps.
Showing 13,000 names of places, villages, and cities in Palestine.
Therefore, no sane European person can say that Palestine is a land without a people.
However, it became clear to us after 100 years that they did not mean that Palestine was a land without a people.
They meant to take it and expel the people from it.
As a result, it would become a land without a people.
Therefore, the myth that Palestine is a land without a people was a plan to transform Palestine into a land without a people.
When the English came...
The English came in 1920.
In 1920, the British Mandate began.
What is the British Mandate?
The British Mandate came about when the Arab countries were liberated from the Turks,
each country was to become an independent state.
An independent state with a parliament and so on.
A state would be categorised as Mandate A.
Mandate A means a state which is ready for independence.
Mandate A means a state which is ready for independence.
However, the allies would help them to form the state apparatus.
Palestine and Iraq were of the same level.
Both of them were Mandate type A.
Meaning they were ready for independence.
The British converted Iraq to an independent state.
They converted it to an independent state.
However, they deceived the Arabs and the Palestinians by gradually allowing in jewish immigrant from Russia and London.
When these Jews arrived in Palestine, as I said, their number was almost non-existent.
There were about 15,000 Arab Jews living in Palestine since ancient times.
However, there were no European Jews.
The British started transforming Palestine to an Israeli state, in a discrete way.
They appointed the first British High Commissioner.
The purpose of this High Commissioner was to convert Palestine to an independent state.
Herbert Samuel.
Herbert Samuel.
Herbert Samuel was a significant Zionist.
He was British and a significant Zionist.
Five years before, in 1915, he had published a paper entitled,
The Colonisation of Palestine.
Which he presented to the Zionists.
How can we convert Palestine to a Zionist colony when we possess it?
So, the purpose of the British was not to transform Palestine into an independent state.
No.
He came to transform Palestine to a Zionist state.
When he arrived, he remained in power from 1920 to 1925.
During this period, he issued more than a hundred laws.
These laws were to establish an independent entity for the Jews who had not even arrived in Palestine at that time.
A banking system was created.
An independent education system.
A system for energy, construction, hospitals, medicine,
etc.
More importantly, he established for the Jews a parliamentary system independent from the people of the country.
Also, more dangerous than that, he established the nucleus of an entity called the Haganah, which is the Israeli army.
Consequently, his presence was actually to transform Palestine into a Zionist state.
Where was the Palestinian political leadership at that time?
Of course, at the beginning, people really believed that Britain entered, as they did with Iraq, to convert Palestine to another Arab independent state,
such as Egypt, Iraq, etc.
However, it quickly became clear to them that the British wanted the Jews to immigrant in.
So, a revolutions took place.
The revolution took place in 1921, a year after the arrival of Herbert Samuel.
The Jaffa revolution.
Yes, the Jaffa revolution.
The British, as usual, came with the Haycraft mission.
The mission stated that the reason for the anger of the Palestinians was the entry of Jewish emigrants to their homes.
By the way, they were completely different from the Arab Jews.
How so?
Because they were called Bolshevik Jews.
Their languages were different.
Their origins were European, Russian, Polish, etc.
They were communist.
They were completely different.
It was impossible for them to be like the Arab Jews and assimilate into the Arab world.
After this revolution, by the way, Churchill came to Palestine in 1921,
to assure the Palestinians that their rights were preserved and that no one would harm them from abroad.
This was all a lie.
It's all a lie.
Churchill met the leaders of Palestine at that time in March 1921.
One of them was my father.
My father was one of those who met Churchill.
My father told me that he stood with Churchill and told him,
You are coming to turn us into an independent state.
We don't want you to bring Jewish emigrants to expel us from our homes.
He told him,
No, we don't mean that at all.
And we ask you, this is what my father told him,
We ask you not to harm us and stay calm.
I asked my father, did you ask him for security and peace?
He said no.
Security and peace, the security of the country is in our hands.
He asked us not to wage a revolution against him.
Of course, this was a great British deception.
So, the emigration continued.
In 1929, the Buraq revolution began.
When the Bolsheviks entered Al-Aqsa Mosque,
the Buraq wall,
they wanted to take it over and expel the Muslims from it.
A large riot took place.
Britain came with an international mission.
Britain did not participate in it directly.
It was comprised of other European countries.
And a Muslim country, Turkey.
It was Turkey.
They studied the claims of the Jews
about the Buraq wall,
which is called the Western Wall.
Is it Jewish or not?
The International Committee decided,
and its documents are still available today,
that the Western Wall, the Buraq Wall,
Of Al-Aqsa Mosque,
was Muslim property in its entirety
And had been for thousands of years.
It is the complete property of the Muslims,
and there is no ownership of any Jew at all.
However, the Jews were allowed to pray on it
at specific times
without setting up any permanent structures.
They pray on the wall outside the Al-Aqsa Mosque
without setting up any permanent structure.
And by the way,
This assertion, that the Buraq Wall is a completely Islamic property.
It was established once again
in Resolution 194,
which was issued in December 1948,
Proclaiming the right of return for refugees.
It was also issued in a decision by UNESCO
to keep things as they are,
to keep things as they are,
in 1954,
and in all international decisions.
So, let's go back to the middle of the 1930s.
At this point, the relationship between the Jews and the Zionists
and the British changed.
Their relationship before that was good,
and there was harmony and synergy in their goals.
After that, even the relationship
between the Zionists and the British began to change.
Is that fair?
Not at all.
Not at all.
It continued.
The evidence for that is that
Britain played a major criminal,
continuous,
and intended role.
When the time comes,
Britain should be responsible for all its crimes.
In the middle of the 1930s,
the number of Jews who were admitted by Britain
reached about 340,000.
In a small country like Palestine,
they now represented 30% of the population.
So, the Palestinians revolted against them.
They revolted in every city and village
during the Arab Revolt of 1936.
It continued for three years,
from 1936 to 1939.
Britain carried out major massacres
in all the villages that revolted against the British.
They carried out terrible massacres.
They would go to every village
and take their youth
and put them in cages.
They would keep them there in the heat
for two or three days without eating or drinking.
The revolutionaries who revolted against the British
would be killed, hanged
Without any laws or due process.
Britain was supposed to be
the guardian of security in Palestine
according to the law.
However, they turned against the Palestinians
and brought British forces
that the Western colonial world
had never witnessed before.
They brought about 50,000 British soldiers.
They brought British warplanes.
They brought British naval ships
to control a weak people
who were defending themselves.
How did they defend themselves?
Each one of them carried a small gun
in every village.
They would watch the British caravans
in the mountains
and they disrupted the British presence.
So, Britain carried out
a massive criminal, genocidal campaign.
By the way,
all this information is now available.
I know a professor named Matthew Hughes.
He's a military historian
at King's College in London.
He published a book called
The Pacification of Palestine.
There are thousands of documents
that have been published.
British documents
and Zionist documents
showing that Britain intended
to eliminate the Palestinians
with the help of the Jews
and to join them in that.
The Jews were wearing
the clothes of the British soldiers
and they were being trained.
The British General Wingate
trained a Zionist group
for the night battle
called the Special Night Squad.
This squad was the nucleus of
the Haganah or the Israeli army.
This revolution lasted for three years
and it was a full-scale operation.
The British used the kings
and the Arab leaders
to convince the Palestinians
that Britain would fulfill
their national demands
and to encourage the Palestinians towards peace and calm.
The Arabs accepted this in 1939.
A conference was held in London
with the aim of accepting
the demands of the Palestinians.
What were the Palestinian demands?
It was to prevent further Jewish migration
and to have independence for Palestine.
The British said that they would prevent
or limit Jewish migration
but they did not call for removing
the Jews who had already arrived
and that within 8 or 10 years
they would make Palestine an independent state.
However, this was all a lie.
And what covered this lie
was that the Second World War began.
Of course, Britain was involved
in the Second World War
and did not fulfil any of its promises.
The Zionists in Palestine
trained themselves in an organized army
and were ready to attack Palestine
with the army they had established
with the help of the British.
Until the end of the Second World War.
During this period,
the Zionists made a complete file
On each village,
how many inhabitants it had,
how many weapons,
whether the villagers were trained to use the weapons or not,
and so on.
They were ready to attack each village
and eliminate it.
They had one problem though, theoretically.
Which was the presence of the British.
Theoretically, Britain was supposed
to protect Palestine.
Now, they had become trained and ready.
The Palestinians were severely weakened
after the 1936 revolution.
For the Zionists,
it was a good opportunity
to take over Palestine.
What was the consequence?
The presence of the British.
The British who had been their friends
became their enemies.
They began a terrorist campaign
against the British.
They destroyed the headquarters
of the British army in Jerusalem.
They kidnapped British soldiers
in Palestine.
They kidnapped the judges
who were declaring them terrorists.
They did all of that.
The strange thing is that
Britain accepted it and
did not fight the Jews
who had become their enemies
after they had brought them to Palestine.
Britain continued to fight the Palestinians.
For example, I'll give you a clear example.
I have seen some of them.
In 1948,
at the beginning of the year,
the British were still in Palestine.
They left in May 1948.
At that time, the Jews
gathered their forces
and came with jewish soldiers from Europe
who had come out of the Second World War.
The British allowed them
to enter Palestine.
Whereas they prevented any Arab
Volunteers from coming
To support Palestine.
Thus, there was a Jewish army
under the protection of Britain.
While it was forbidden to provide
military assistance
to the Palestinians
from neighboring Arab countries.
So, the British were complicit in that.
More than that,
the Jews began to attack
Palestinian villages and cities
while the British were still there.
Who were supposed to protect them.
At that time,
the British occupied 11 large cities
in Palestine.
Jaffa, Haifa, Safad, Tabariya,
and also 200 Palestinian villages.
They displaced the people
in 45 massacres.
Such as the massacre in Deir Yassin
and many other massacres.
All of that happened while the British were still there.
Thus, the Jews expelled
half of the Palestinian refugees
at that time
while the British were still there.
On the contrary, the British were accused
in Haifa, Jaffa, and Tabariya
Of helping the Zionists
to expel the Palestinians
from their homes.
Thus, they allowed
the armed Jews
to attack the Palestinian villages
and cities
without helping the villagers.
In fact, sometimes,
they brought cars
to transport them
and expel them
from their homes to another place.
Thus, the British are
extremely complicit
in the formation of Israel.
Of course,
after the British left,
Arab forces entered Israel.
The Arab forces were
under different leaderships
and they were not ready
for this role
neither militarily
nor politically.
They were under different leaderships
and their number was very small.
The Jewish forces were
ten times stronger than the Arab forces.
Here,
I'd like to draw your attention to two points.
There was a rumour
at that time in 1948
that the Palestinians sold their lands.
This rumour
was spread by two opposing parties.
The first party
was the Arab party
who accepted this rumour
in some countries, of course,
because the Arabs were defeated badly
in Palestine.
They entered Palestine
and the Jews controlled
6% of Palestine
under
the British Mandate.
Before the British occupation,
the Jews owned
almost nothing.
After 30 years,
they controlled
only 6% of Palestine
due to the British occupation.
From 1920
to 1948.
Yes, 6%.
This was due to the British occupation.
The Arab forces entered Palestine
and they were defeated.
And 80% of Palestine
Came under the control of the Zionist forces.
The first party
that wanted
to declare this
some Arab parties
to show why they were defeated
The other party that supported
this idea that the Palestinians
sold their lands
was the Zionist party.
They said to the Arabs,
why are you fighting us?
We bought Palestine,
so you have no right
to come and fight us.
Of course, the events
and the history after this
show that this was
a huge deception.
We have
statistical data and maps.
Without the British occupation,
they didn't own any part of Palestine.
With the British occupation,
they owned 6%.
With the Zionist occupation
in 1948,
they took 80% of Palestine.
Now, of course,
the remaining 20%
which 1% of it is Gaza
and 19%
Is the West Bank,
they now control them.
I would like to take
a step back regarding
the formation of the American-Zionist
relationship.
At the same time
that the relationship between
the British and the Zionists
began to change,
the American-Zionist relationship began to form. How did that happen?
This is a very good question.
Thank you.
It's a very good question.
At that time,
every step
to convert Palestine
to a Zionist state
was in the hands of
Britain and its allies.
The Americans were not
a part of this process.
On the contrary, the US State Department 
was against the formation of
a Zionist state.
Why was it against it?
Because all those who came to
Palestine and occupied it
were Bolshevik Jews from Russia.
The US was afraid
that they would form
a communist state in Palestine.
They were totally against it.
For a very short time,
until
November 1948,
when the United Nations
issued a decision
which was a suggestion
and not obligatory.
The decision was to divide
Palestine between Arabs and Jews.
55% Jews and 45% Arabs.
Exactly.
Of course,
55% of Jews who
Had come to Palestine
on ships
a few months
before that.
Some of them
did not have
Palestinian citizenship
and did not live there.
Also,
half of the population
was Arab.
The majority of these 55%
were Palestinians from Tel Aviv
to Haifa.
Jews arrived to Palestine
on ships
and settled there.
55%, which was not
equal to 10% of the area
were added to it by 45%
to give them
more space.
Let's go back to the United States.
The United States
was against
the establishment
of a Jewish state
in Palestine.
They also had a good relationship
with the Arabs.
Ten years before,
they had signed an agreement with Saudi Arabia
For Aramco Petrol.
They had a good relationship.
The first country
that recognised
the United States in 1790
was Morocco.
The United States
was a British colony.
The first country
that recognised the United States
was in the Arab world.
However, the Zionists came
and one of them
was a businessman
who was a friend of Truman.
He told him,
You have elections now
and you are going to lose.
The Jewish votes will make you win.
So, he sold
Palestine, Truman did,
in exchange for the Jewish votes.
And 2 million dollars.
Yes, very good.
They paid him.
He changed his mind
and gave instructions
to the American Foreign mission
at the last moment
that
they should change their mind
and accept the division
of Palestine and so on.
I have documents
that show
the surprise of the Americans
when suddenly
it was decided to transfer
the support to the Zionists.
One of the foreign diplomats
said,
We invited the Zionist delegation
to come and inform them that we do not
accept their presence in Palestine.
We had to apologize
for the meeting
because they were embarrassed.
There is a young man
I think his name is Josh Robner.
He's jewish.
A PhD researcher
at the moment.
He told me
that he was amazed
by the sudden switch
Of America
From not recognising
the existence
of a Jewish state
or a communist Russian state.
To the opposite,
But this support extended
to the governments after Truman.
Why?
Because
when the Zionists
occupied 80% of the territory
of Palestine,
the Europeans
and the Americans are pragmatists and
said,
They've taken the land, so let's deal
with this reality in a different way.
When Resolution 194 was issued
on the 11th of December
1948,
a report
by Folke Bernadotte,
the UN Secretary General
for Peace,
they changed their opinion
about this decision.
They mitigated it.
The decision said that the refugees
must return to their homes.
By the way, this decision
has been ratified
135 times until today
This decision is still valid.
This decision is not based
on any legal principle.
It is a confirmation of the
established rights.
A person cannot be expelled from his home
or his land.
Racism
and ethnic displacement
is a crime of war and all that.
Anyway,
the Western
alliance
turned to support for
Israel during this period.
The evidence for this is
that when the Arabs lost
in 1948,
they thought of a second try
to reclaim the land
which was taken by the Jews.
Because in this land,
the Jews displaced
families from 560 cities and villages
which comprised 80%
of Palestine.
And as I said,
all the cities and villages
Their residents were displaced
Alongside 90 massacres.
90 massacres.
They used to go to the village
and occupy the village
and kill people there.
They used to tell the others
Here's the road
to leave
and block the other ways out.
It was a crime
and the Arab world
was shocked by it.
This was worse than the Crusades,
Tartars or anything like that.
Everything changed.
The kings
were overthrown or
killed.
Governments changed.
Egypt went from a monarchy
to a republic.
Jordan's King Abdullah was killed.
Iraq's King Faisal was removed.
Syria was overthrown.
The entire Arab world
changed.
Because the heart of the Arab world
suddenly became
Jewish, colonial and Zionist.
This was unthinkable.
It was a blow to the Arab world.
It was a blow to their hearts.
Yes, to their hearts.
The Arabs thought
about a second round to reclaim the land.
They didn't realize
the size of the Zionist forces.
They did not realize
that they were 120,000 soldiers
divided into nine military divisions.
They had 31 military operations
and a military plan
to occupy studied areas.
All the leaders
were out
of the Second World War
from Europe and America.
It was an organized army
So they thought
about another round.
Why?
To bring the Palestinians back
to their homes.
To liberate them from this occupation.
What did Europe do?
What did it do?
In 1950,
A tri-declaration was issued
by America, Britain and France.
It said to the Arabs,
if you try to change the current situation
and bring the refugees back to their homes
and liberate them,
we'll wage a war against you.
We'll wage a war against you.
So, Zionism
is the daughter of European colonialism
to this day.
Let me
make it short.
I wrote an article
in British and
American newspapers.
I said that the Crusades are back.
They're back.
Who is helping Israel?
Who gives them support?
Aircraft carriers
come from America
To battle refugees
in Gaza?
The ambassadors
Macron
from France,
the Italians,
the Germans in particular,
the English
Even though he's Indian
come to Israel
and pledge their loyalty and obedience.
They say to them,
we are with you.
The Crusades are back.
Completely.
Those who came to us a thousand years ago
have now come to us again
with modern weapons.
They are the same people.
Let's go back
to 1950.
Before 1950,
I know that you were born in Bir Seba
in 1937.
Yes, that's right.
You saw Palestine
before 1948.
And after 1948,
I would like to hear your story directly.
How was Palestine before?
And when you were 11 years old, during the Nakba
what did you see?
That's a good question.
Thank you.
I was born in 1937
in a village
called Al-Ma'in.
Al-Ma'in Abu Al-Sitta
belongs to our family.
My father was a well-known sheikh
from the Bir Seba tribes.
Their influence extended
From Egypt to
Eastern Jordan.
In 1936,
the year of the revolution,
we launched a revolution against the British.
We expelled the British from the
entire Bir Seba region.
For a whole year,
from November 1938 to
November 1939,
we established a Palestinian national government
outside of the British for a whole year.
After that,
my older brother,
who was leading the revolution,
fled to Egypt
from the British.
He returned
before 1948,
and he established a team
with volunteers.
To defend our land.
There were no Jews on our land.
It was a rare thing.
The Bir Seba district
and the southern Gaza district
had an area of 13,500 square kilometers.
There were no Jews at all
except for a few colonies
Established by the British
of less than 0.5% of the area.
So,
I was in a school.
The British had established
a school for the sons of sheikhs
in Bir Seba.
In April 1948,
The principle,
the head of the school,
said,
The Jews are now
slaughtering people in Jaffa, in the north
in Jerusalem, in Deir Yassin
and he said, I can't protect you.
Go to your families.
So, I and two of my relatives
At the school.
We were about 9 or 10 years old.
We walked 40 kilometers
on our feet
until we reached our relatives
Al-Ma'in,
which is
about 40 kilometers away
from the city of Bir Seba
where I was.
After that,
I stayed with my family for two or three weeks.
On May 14, 1948,
the Jews attacked us
with 24 machine guns.
24 machine guns.
I remember
that we woke up at night
and found 48 lights
coming at us from the east.
We,
children and women,
went to a nearby valley to hide.
The young men,
who were older brothers and cousins,
stayed 
in place.
They had about 10 or 15 guns.
They were attacked
and shot at.
But, of course,
this was at dawn.
In the morning,
they overcame us, of course.
They started
to destroy
all our buildings and burn them.
My father built a school
in 1920.
They destroyed it.
We had a water well
with an engine. They destroyed it.
We had a mill,
a wheat mill and so on.
They destroyed
four millstones in it.
They destroyed and killed everything
they found.
When morning came,
we were hiding in the valley.
At night,
we used to see the smoke coming out.
We used to say,
this is so and so's house.
As we see now in Gaza,
they do this.
The Jewish forces
continued their way
to Deir el-Balah
until the next day,
15th of May,
when the Egyptian army entered.
They advanced there
to cut off the way of the Egyptian army.
There was a force
in Deir el-Balah on the way
of Muslim volunteers.
They blocked them
and killed them all.
They fled.
Now,
our towns were destroyed.
Our houses were destroyed.
But, the Jews got out
And returned two months later.
What happened next
was that my father
had four sons studying at university
in Cairo.
Two of them were my brothers
who left the university
and came to fight the Jews in Palestine.
He told them that the Egyptian army
had arrived and they should return to their university.
Then, my father said,
your little brother,
take him with you
to continue his studies.
Our school was destroyed,
etc.
They took me with them.
My brother and cousin
who was a volunteer leader,
were on the train.
They Egyptians held us in Qantar for a week.
We were held in Qantar
to make sure that
my brother and cousin
were students
at the University of Cairo.
They took us with a group of people
In a train
for criminals and detainees.
It was three in the morning
we arrived
in Cairo.
All the train was
for criminals
who had long sentences.
We found about a hundred
Egyptian police officers
at the station
waiting for us.
They took us out of the train
and told us
to stop.
They told us to sit down
and walk a few steps.
They told us to sit down again.
They treated us
Like criminals.
Until we arrived at the police station.
We were
in two rooms.
On the second day,
An officer came, and was told
that my cousin, who was
a good speaker.
He said that we're students
at the University of Cairo.
We were volunteers
Fighting in Palestine.
Anyway, they took us to the ministry
and later it was clear
that we were students. And they released us.
After that,
I continued my studies in Egypt
until I graduated
from the Faculty of Engineering
in 1959.
My brothers before me
were doctors, teachers,
and engineers. They came to Kuwait
in the 1950s.
They brought me
As well.
I was a new graduate.
I stayed for about nine months.
Then,
I took
a training scholarship
from
the British Council
and went to
London.
I left 
and entered
the University College in London.
I earned a PhD
in Civil Engineering.
I graduated in 1964.
After that, I became a professor
at the University of Canada.
Until
I came here. I had a friend.
May Allah
remember him well.
Salim Al-Marzouq.
He told me that I should come here
and we have projects.
So, I came here and stayed.
During this period,
I wrote my memoirs
in English. It's been translated to Italian now.
It's called,
Mapping My Return.
And I tell the whole story there.
During this period,
we didn't stop
defending Palestine.
We held many conferences
in Britain.
We held conferences
in America.
In 1967, another Nakba, 
a new Nakba.
We established
Arab American University Graduates.
May Allah bless them.
Edward Said, Ibrahim Abulughod,
and others.
We held
many activities.
Among these activities,
I established, in 2000, in London
Palestine Land Society
Palestine Land Society
Has published
400 research papers
on Palestine,
refugees, the right of return,
laws of war, and so on.
It also published
several atlases
on Palestine.
You have one of them.
An Atlas of Palestine
from 1917
to 1966.
It's
700 pages long.
It has
a record of Palestine
During the Mandate, the Nakba,
and after the Nakba.
This atlas has been published
in Arabic, first in English,
then in Arabic,
then in Spanish,
and this month, it was published
in Russian as well.
This atlas records Palestine before 1948, right?
Before 1948, and after that.
After that, right?
Yes. These are the important stages.
from 1917
to before 1967.
We also published an atlas
called The Return Journey
in Arabic,
English, and Hebrew.
It shows each village in Palestine
and the colonies built on it,
and the Zionist
colonialist organization that took the land.
We also have
a database on the computer
a complete database
of all Palestinians around the world,
including Palestine,
where they came from,
and where they are now.
We also made a plan
called The Return Plan
to show how we can return.
The right to return.
It is sacred, legal, and possible.
Exactly.
How is it possible?
I am asking you this question.
Because someone might say that today, in reality, there's a country called Israel
with many Jews.
How can you return
as an Arab
and a Palestinian to your land?
Yes, yes.
I am saying that it is possible.
Of course, it is possible
for many reasons.
It's possible because a right cannot be lost
no matter how long it takes.
It's also possible because
It's enshrined in international law 
In all the laws.
There's nothing against it.
But I'm saying that
what I have recently done
is a geographical demographic study.
It became clear to me
after the study,
and now I will tell you where you can find it
For those who want to read all of this in detail.
I found that
88% of Jews
live only in 12%
of the territory of Israel.
The remaining area
has very few Jews.
Why?
Because Jews
live in big cities
and don't live
in rural or agricultural lands.
Until now,
88% of the territory of Israel
is empty
Of population.
Of course, it's being used though.
They created kibbutzes there.
The youth who are fighting now
are fighting
against the kibbutzes.
The number of kibbutzes
does not exceed 2% of the population of Israel.
They're planted
everywhere to prevent
the return of the refugees.
So they can say that this place is not suitable.
But in reality, it's being used
By the Israeli army,
the Israeli military and Israeli training.
Everything that can be done
to prevent the return of the refugees.
So, demographically and geographically, 
it's very possible.
I came from America,
as I told you,
two weeks ago,
at the end of September.
I explained my plan
for the return of the refugees.
We know where every Palestinian came from
and where he is
in what refugee camp.
What is his path?
And that on that path,
there are no Jews at all.
Of course,
we assume that this would be possible militarily
But from a demographic point of view,
it is possible, easily
that most of the residents
of Gaza would be able to return
to their homes
by walking.
The distance between the Gaza Strip
and Al-Khalil,
the other part excised from Palestine,
is 30 km.
30 km from the Gaza Strip
to Jerusalem.
Easily.
Now,
the other question is
that as an engineer
and a planner,
I have to think in this way.
Ten years ago, I established
an international competition
between Palestinian students
in Palestine,
Jordan, Lebanon, or abroad.
Every year, there's a competition.
What is this competition?
We present to them
a list of
ten Palestinian villages.
We give them full details
about these villages,
and we tell them
what their expected population is,
and we ask them to reconstruct
these destroyed villages.
We get
details from the students,
a complete map of the reconstruction,
including the number
of workers required,
the number of bags of cement required,
and so on.
This competition
is held in London
every year in September.
The judges are British.
They're members of
the Royal Institute of British Architects.
They receive
the submitted projects.
Every year,
we have about 40 to 50
graduates who are engineers.
We give out first,
second, and third prizes.
Until now,
We're in the eighth year
of this competition,
270 architects and engineers
have contributed
in preparing maps and plans
for the reconstruction of Palestine.
We have the geography,
the demography,
the return plan,
the engineers and workers
who are capable
of reconstruction,
and of course,
we have our historical right
which cannot be disputed.
We also have from the West a number of
international laws
which support our right.
These laws are called
inalienable rights.
These rights are not negotiable.
Human rights,
Laws of war,
And so on,
And now, as the Arab world has seen
The children of Gaza
Remain steadfast.
I receive calls
from my family
and neighbours in Gaza
who say that they will not leave Gaza ever.
This is our home.
If we die in Gaza,
it's better than dying in the desert.
As I said before,
the child
in the hospital
is injured and wrapped in bandages.
His father
his father, who's also bandaged. He says to him, Don't worry, father. I'm fine. He reassures his father.
This video shocked the world. We are a people that cannot accept less than the homeland.
Therefore, I would like to conclude, if you allow me, that the Arab people are alive, as I have seen everywhere.
I receive calls from young people in Yemen, Libya, Tunisia, Pakistan, and other places. They say,
open for us the door of volunteering. We're prepared to help save Palestine and Jerusalem from destruction,
occupation, and crime. Crimes that are unaccounted for. And these crimes, unfortunately, the colonial states themselves are
waging a new crusade against us. I have no doubt about that. They are the same people. I would like to add that
the Arab people, as I have said, their hearts are with the homeland. When there is democracy in an Arab country,
the people and the government find the same voice. This is a good thing. We are talking about legality.
This exists in Kuwait. Kuwait supports Palestine with all its heart and soul. Because its people are Arabs,
they feel their Arabness and their protection of the Arab homeland, Jerusalem, and the holy sites.
So, if there is a division between the rulers and their people, meaning that the ruler does what he wants,
he wants to keep his throne, while the people have no voice. This is where the role of the
Normalising rulers comes in. However, I believe that these rulers are ashamed in front of their people. When they see a child
saying to his father in the hospital and he's wrapped in bandages and says, Don't worry, father. I'm fine. When they see these images. 
Before you came for me today, the head of the Kuwaiti hospital in Rafa told me they wouldn't leave. They would remain with their patients even if the roof caves in.
These are people that cannot be defeated. However, we want to support them to win by all means, by action and speech.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you. I have a final question to end our interview. We talked about the first Nakba in 1948, and another Nakba took place in 1967.
Do you think that there is a third Nakba taking place today?
I think this is very likely. This is a part of the Zionist plan. Each time, they are able to gain huge spoils from the Arab world
or from Palestine. In particular, they gained 80% from the Nakba. Then, in 1967, they gained 100%. Now, they want to wipe out Palestine
and to abolish any Arab role at all. I mean, there is no longer any scope for them to occupy the West Bank. They want to destroy
Palestinians in Gaza. I mean to destroy. They want to obliterate them. They want it evacuated of all its people, as they told the Europeans 100 years ago.
They want to do this. After that, of course, they'll say that criminal phrase, that we have to accept the reality. They'll say, accept the reality.
Is reality to commit this crime? Is reality to eradicate an entire people? Is it reality to kill the heart of the Arab world? Is it reality, that the Nakba which began 
75 years, should continue? How can this be accepted? They'll try, no doubt. However, my hope is in the Arab people
and my hope is also in the public opinion in Europe and America. When I see them constantly, and I am a member
of more than one institution in Europe and America, I find that this enlightened Western world
has overcome the barrier of fear. I'm not saying that it has become a powerful force. However, many Jews call me
and say that they don't believe in Zionism. There is a Jew named Peter Bernard. He's an American Jew. He has
1,000,000 or 2,000,000 followers. He called me a while ago. Twice. One of them was last week. He said,
how can we apply the right of return without killing the Jews? They think that when we return, we'll take revenge on them
and therefore, we'll slaughter them as they slaughtered us. I say no. I say that the crime that has been committed against us
is Zionism. Every non-Zionist Jew is a Jew. They believe in Judaism like any other person. Therefore, in my plan,
I say that the right of return is to remove Zionism because it is the mother of all crimes. The mother of all crimes. However, a Jew like my friends
who deal with me who are against Zionism, there's no objection to them. But, if you say that you're a Zionist,
You are saying that my goal is to slaughter you and take your house. I cannot accept but that you die and I live. 
Are Zionists the real terrorists? They are the ones who invented terrorism. They're the ones who have lived
their whole lives by terrorism because they don't have a legal, moral, or any other foundation. I've written an article.
I said that these Zionist Jews who say that we are the victims of the Holocaust. I said that if you are the victims of Europe
and you are the victims of the Holocaust, then you're cowards. Why? If you are brave, act like a Palestinian. Fight those who fight you.
Go to those in Europe, the Germans and others, who have committed atrocities against you over a long history. Fight them.
You fight those who have slaughtered you. Why go to a land that you've never seen or heard of?
You slaughter innocent people who have never done anything to you. This is the height of cowardice. You are fools. I said that to Uri Avner,
who was very famous. I said that you're cowards. Today, I wrote an article and said to Blinken that you're a coward. He'd said, I'm not
Just the Secretary of State, I'm the grandson of a Jew who survived a massacre. I said to him that if you want to be this Jew, then you're a coward
because you come to Palestine to slaughter its people. Why don't you go to those who threatened your grandfather with murder and fight them? Why do you fight
those whom you have never seen or heard of in another country? You want to kill them and erase their existence. In Europe and America,
it's forbidden to criticize Israel. This is the cowardice. Therefore, the nature of Zionism and its existence in Europe is an extraordinary, unnatural creation.
I don't think that it will last forever. I repeat the word. I have no problem with the Jews. As I said, there are institutions in Britain and America
that say that Jews are against Zionism. Jews for the right of return. In my lectures, when they ask how can the Jews leave Palestine and so on? I ask, why can't the Jews live there like they do in Golders Green in London?
There's a big Jewish neighbourhood there. Did they slaughter the British and take their homes and massacre them? Or did they live as normal citizens under the British police,
the British municipality and British streets? Why don't they live in Palestine like this? Because Zionism says that you die while I live.
This principle can't last forever. In the end, even if we only have ten Palestinians left, we have 400 million Arabs, 2 billion Muslims, and an unseen army of the free world.
Therefore, it cannot last forever. What's important is that the Arab leaders do not turn to help Zionism either by normalization, submission, or even silence. This is imperative.
As young people, it's your duty to enlighten the world. Alhamdulillah, in Kuwait, this is not a question at all. The government and the people hold a strong position. I've known it personally since the 1960s.
However, if any Arab leaders try to sell the cause of Palestine, the cause of Arabs, Islam, etc. in order to keep their throne, this is not only treason. It's a complete denial of humanity.
Inshallah, this won't happen. The proof for this is your presence, young people, with a program like this.
You've honoured us here.
It's a wonderful thing.
We learned so much from you.
On the way, talking to you in the car, and your great spirit. It's as if your words were saying that our heart and soul are with Palestine, the Arab homeland.
However, we want information to confirm this. I hope that I've given you enough.
More than you can imagine. You have enlightened us a lot. Thank you for being here, Dr. Thank you for your trust. Thank you very much. We're so grateful for this evening with you.
Thank you, Dr.
Thank you.
See you, Insha'Allah.
So long as there are still young people like you in the world.
The Arab world will be alright.
Insha'Allah.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
