He said, you in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) are like a "falooda". I asked what he meant.
He said you smell sweet, you taste sweet, and you're easy to digest
I asked what he meant by easy to digest
He said if someone were to eat you, it wouldn't upset the stomach
I said, this is a risky statement, Mr Hassan
Should I inform the Speaker of the National Assembly? He said, Go ahead and tell him. Tell your Emir as well
Good evening, you can't imagine how delighted Muneera and I are today in reaching our 100th episode
when we began this podcast, we said
Let's try. Then we developed, adding cameras and lighting, and today
we've reached the 100th episode, and with a guest
who we never imagined we could host because our beginning was very humble
Today our episode is with Dr. Abdullah Al-Nafisi
A person like Dr. Abdullah Al-Nafisi could speak about many topics
But today
since this is the 100th episode and most of our followers are from the Gulf countries
we decided to focus on Gulf issues and speak about the Gulf situation with our guest
we talked about the Gulf, then moved to issues between the Gulf and Iran
and at the end we spoke about Kuwait. So if you enjoy the episode
be sure to share it with others who you think might enjoy or benefit
from the episode. I wish you a pleasant viewing, this is Faisal Al-Agel
and this is the 100th episode of Bidon Waraq
Shall we start? I see you have my booklet
I referred to it in preparing for our conversation today
so I started from this book as a reference because it covered most
of the topics or points that I wanted to discuss
along with some other questions we've set, but this is the starting point
and I found it extremely useful
This booklet was a lecture I gave one year, and Ahmed Diyain approached me
afterwards and said, I have to publish this
He owned Dar Qurtas, if you know it, so they published it and then
other presses re-printed it
Oh, so it came about by chance? It wasn't planned, I mean
No, it wasn't. Nothing in my life has been planned
because I really don't like planning, honestly
I like spontaneity, you see, and the spontaneity of initiative
I mean, some people are planners
and exhaust themselves in planning and then aren't able to implement what they planned
It's true. It can be all planning more than anything
They end up with a bit of despair
I leave it to God, you know, and things are going well so far
AlHamdullah
First of all, welcome to the show
We're on air. Firstly, thank you for accepting the invitation
since we are an independent platform
We don't have the institutional support that other media outlets have access to
And so your presence with us and support is greatly appreciated
and I thank you for joining us
Today we have a few topics ready to discuss, the idea being that
we would like to understand and kind of diagnose the region and
its neighbouring countries and so
we've divided the discussion into two main parts
The first section is the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council
so that we can understand the situation in the GCC and then
through the second section we can reflect on Iran and the relationship with Iran
So, to start
if we want to characterise the relationship, in general, from a starting point
how can we look at the relationships in the GCC?
You mean between the countries of the GCC?
The issue in this topic
is that characterisation is a sensitive process
this question reminds me now of
a book published a few years ago by
an American-British journalist. He's originally English, but lived
in Los Angeles. His name is Charles Glass
He has a book, published years ago, called
Tribes with Flags
He travelled through the Middle East to study the tribe
vis-a-vis the state, and his journey took 62 days. He arrived in Lebanon
and was kidnapped by a pro-Iranian militia
and he went through a very difficult experience
So the title of his book "Tribes with Flags" reminds me of the GCC countries
In what way?
I'm one the people who believe that the six GCC countries continue to exist in
a stage of transition from the tribe to the state
A tribe is administered in a different way from the administration of the state
The state is run by institutions, and institutions
entail constitutionality and legality
and politically protected influence while the tribe doesn't have these features
The tribe is led by a sheikh who has a semi-divine status
historically, and his decisions are final. Centralised authority
GCC countries today have airports and police institutions
universities and schools
and this forms the infrastructure of a state but when you scratch
this surface, you'll find the tribe. Inside is tribalism, the question of Mutairi, Otaybi
and so on. You'll find the extended family and the sect, etc etc
And so, I believe this is the major issue in answering your question
Faisal, I once sat down with the Emir of one of these six countries
He invited me to lunch at his house
Before or after he became Emir?
No, he was the Emir. And I told him I was returning home the following day, but he insisted I dine with him
and he joked that they would stop me at the airport
it was on the phone he spoke to me
I said there was no need for all that
I raise the white flag, I'll do what you want just don't stop me at the airport
So I agreed to come to lunch and he sent a big BMW to get me
with a driver and protection. I'm not worth all that fuss! I don't have a driver even. So I went
and over lunch I asked why their relationship with Kuwait was always a tense one
always tense
Why should there be tension? We are a Gulf people and you are a Gulf people
Why should there be tension? He said, we don't have tension with the Kuwaiti people
Pay attention to his words. He said, and we don't have tension with Kuwait
as a country. We have an issue with a single person in Kuwait
and if this person were not present, our relationship would be smooth and easy
According to him. And I can't say who the person is, of course, it wouldn't be right
but this indicates
that relationships in the region are personal, not institutional
This gives you an idea of the nature of the dealings in the GCC
of the inter-GCC relationships. It's an example
of the relational dynamics between the GCC countries
The dynamic they operate within is one of individual leadership
of the individual person and not institutions
I remember when I was an MP in the Kuwait National Assembly
we proposed the idea, Faisal, that we ought to have a Gulf Parliament
A beautiful idea
Why should the National Assembly be an anomaly?
and always the focus of controversy, and so on
Why not have an elected Gulf Parliament?
And each country would have a quota, for example
so if it had 60 members, each country would get 10 seats
Each country could vote in 10 members. And in this way the will of the Gulf
would be embodied in this parliament
This is not Kuwait's parliament. This is a parliament for
the people of the Gulf. If this were to happen, Faisal
I'm sure it would mark another step towards the idea of systems and order
the political system
Why can't it be semi-unified in some way, as a confederation or a federation, etc?
I noted the reactions to this idea, and I was struck by a kind of despair
How come?
How come?
The Kuwaitis say, No, no, no, we're a special case
I said to them, How long are we going to keep holding on to this claim?
Let this exceptionality spread from Kuwait to the others
then I found a group of our brothers in the Gulf who also objected to the idea. They had
demands that never occurred to me
Such as?
For example, in Bahrain, a Bahraini man told me
we live in a state of psychological and political siege from Iran
as a threat. And we can't accept a kind of detente in the region unless
security conditions are met and so on and so forth
Oman said something else. They said, we are an ancient country
Older than all of you and so our share in the parliament should be greater than yours
So everyone was immersed in their own political illusions
to the extent that
you can't reach an agreement
We, as Arab countries, have our own way and our own cultural context so
as it is today, in presenting solutions, such as democracy, that have non-Arab origins
is that realistic?
or should we look for a system or method that's in line with our way and culture?
Of course, of course. You've reminded me of a book we had in school
when we studied international law
Ah, so my idea is an old one?
Oh, a very old one! But a correct one
we studied a book by Montesquieu
who was a French philosopher. He had a book called De l'esprit des lois
The Spirit of the Laws. He says it's not correct
to take a political concept from one region and apply it to another
He says political concepts, like democracy or the shura or socialism
or economic planning is not transferable from one place to another
They must be established
organically. There's no need to import it
The idea of democracy as it is applied in the third world
is an imported idea and shouldn't be applied
as it is in the West
Therefore, I doubt it'll succeed
You doubt it?
Yes, I do. In fact in 2016
2016, so four or six years ago, a professor at the University of Bruxelles named
Reybrouck who released a book which caused a big stir with NATO. It was called Against Elections
I am against elections
because he says the elections we have in Western Europe have led to a reality where capitalism
controls the parliamentary institution
and thus the process of legislation in Europe serves the
interest of local capitalism more than that of the constituency
Therefore, Reybrouck argues that this framework must be reconsidered because if we continue as we are
corruption will increase in the European political system and
poverty levels will increase across Europe. And he subsequently become a star political
commentator in Europe
and they've begun to host him at American universities now as well
Ok, so within the GCC countries
there are alliances. In your book "Iran and the Gulf" you wrote that within the GCC
or the Gulf Cooperation Council, there are alliances between countries
You mentioned three alliances, which we can identify
We have Saudi Arabia
the UAE, and Bahrain in an alliance. And Qatar and Oman are an alliance, and Kuwait is on its own
So how can we think about this and why it's happened?
just so we can understand the existing relationships and alliances
The understanding here is that the group is not united
They don't have a unified vision. So when you sit down
even with a friend
if you don't have at least some kind of intellectual plan or thinking that brings you together
then what's the use of such a friendship beyond empty rhetoric?
In my view the countries of the GCC are not united by
a vision, either for the future or the present reality
Their views of history, their views of international relations
are completely different from each other. So when you visit a country like Oman
which I've just returned from
and you spend time with the people and officials, and then you go to Qatar and
do the same thing and go to Saudi Arabia and so on
you don't get the feeling that this region is governed by some kind of intellectual unity
even in terms of general perceptions, there are significant disagreements
which call for the establishment of research institutions to study this issue
During the Russian occupation of Afghanistan, Faisal
a meeting brought me together with the leaders of the Afghan jihad, in Mecca
Hekmatyar, Sayyaf, Mujaddidi, Rabbani, maybe six or seven senior officials
and we met at the Intercontinental Hotel in Mecca
and I told them, you are currently in a state of jihad
against the Soviet Union, the Red Army
I've followed the developments and I'm almost certain you will prevail
and the Soviets will be forced to withdraw from Afghanistan
and this is where your problem will begin. Your problem is not the Soviet Union or the Red Army
Your problem will begin after you've defeated them. Hekmatyar asked what I meant
You will enter Kabul without a unified plan or vision
You want something. Rabbani wants something else. Sayyaf wants something
and Mujaddidi wants something. Younes, and so on
and therefore the different Afghan wills are going to collide and it'll be as though your jihad
never happened. So my advice
is that we go to Peshawar now from Mecca and rent a villa
I'm prepared to stay with you, without pay or title, for a year or two or however long it takes
and we design
a unified political system and guidelines because without this
unified system, you'll clash with each other inside Afghanistan
Hekmatyar said, Abdullah, do you think we're students of yours? I said, no
You're masters and elders, but I think your followers will collide with each other
and so it's for the best that we do this
He said, I'm ucomfortable with the idea
Hekmatyar had a kind of spiritual authority over them
The others agreed with Hekmatyar, so I said, fine, it's your choice
but take note of what happens after you defeat the Red Army. See what happens in Kabul
It was a civil war which took place in Kabul
and they started attacking each other with cannons instead of ideas
Because they didn't have a plan or vision
And so, to return to the GCC
We remain in an acceptable state, God willing
but if the wind blows harder and the earth begins to shake, and a social, economic,
international and regional earthquake begins, which is coming. I mean, it's on the way
Here, Faisal, the vision or plan becomes vital
Here, unity of will is the most important factor
So I stress that the GCC countries should pay attention to
this issue and these alliances that I referred to in this
booklet are emerging from
the intellectual fragments of the GCC countries
So, the question now is about Western hegemony over politics
Firstly, is there still Western hegemony on Gulf politics, whether from our friends in the West
such as America or other western nations? Are they still influential enough today
to be an obstruction to us forming a unified will and integrated project?
What does the West want from the region?
It wants two things
First, of course, oil and the vast resources that the region has
This is one. The second thing
is that the region is one of vital interests that affords the United States
guardianship, and I do not say alliance. It's a guardianship
There is an American guardianship over the GCC states
It's not an alliance. I mean, we studied the idea of alliances
in international relations and they are based on complementary wills
Give and take
Give and take, and this doesn't exist between us and the United States
We live in a state of dependence
But we do receive defence systems and protection
True, that's correct
But I believe that relations between us and the West
are not relations of alliance as much as they are relations of subordination
So, for example, matters of peace and war are not in our hands
Meaning, it's not the prerogative of the GCC states to declare war
on another country unless they receive a green light from the West
The GCC countries don't have the right to enter into any strategic or
military conflict without a green light from an international ally
The freedom or will that GCC countries have
is in the management of internal affairs within the Gulf as dictated by
the interests of the states within this Gulf system
But the West has a psychological and cultural hegemony
Now the cultural hegemony over the GCC countries
I mean, we've now become
I believe we've become cultural colonies of the West
How do you mean?
I mean, what relationship do
Khaitan residents have with this celebration
what do they call it?
You mean, Christmas?
No, Christmas is religious. It's fine
They might be Christians or something
Thanksgiving, maybe?
No, the one where they give red flowers
Valentine's?
Valentine's! They're putting up flowers in the streets of Khaitan. This has nothing to do with us
We see them in Hamra as well
So, the truth is that Western cultural hegemony
has entered our homes and our relations with countries
and in our plays and in the lexicon that we exchange
This has become a serious matter, I believe
Fast food is a story in and of itself
You should do an episode just on the introduction of fast food in the Gulf or in Kuwait
This is its own subject of culture
It's a very rich topic, Faisal
It's evidence that we've become a cultural colony of the West
Ok, so in terms of cultural colonisation by the West
what is the possibility of achieving independence from this colonisation? Direct or indirect
Difficult. Extremely difficult
Do you know how many Kuwaiti or Gulf students study in America?
They say it's over 90,000. Ninety thousand young people studying and living
in America for 4 years, 5 years, after which they return to this region
What cultural excavations do they do?
What social impact do they have on the GCC?
Do you know that even these educational missions have become a question?
Why don't we send our students
in these same numbers, to Europe, to Japan, to India, to South Korea?
so that our intellectual and cultural references can diversify
I mean Japan has English-speaking universities
three of the largest universities in Japan lecture in English
their curricula are in English
This genius people
why don't we go to them and benefit from this Japanese experience?
Malaysia has great universities
India has universities that I've visited
I visited India and its universities
University of Kerala, and Delhi, and Bombay
They have good universities?
Very, very good
But we always hear that the best universities are in America and Britain
This is because of the cultural colonisation
this is the result of the absence that took place, where civilisation
science, development and the future is over there, which is not accurate
So I hope we're aware of the state of dependency
we live in and its danger
Now China is on its way. It's coming to the region
It's coming and we're in a situation where China is trying to form
agreements with GCC countries
and at the same time we don't want to rattle America
so what is the current situation?
How do you analyse this situation or what comes to mind when you see initiatives from China?
True, of course, now our international ally
the United States is in its worst conditions. I mean, economically at its worst, internally
America is at its worst. 26 million people are now unemployed
in the United States. There's poverty across many states
Salt Lake City and other areas are suffering from unprecedented circumstances
which have never happened before
The United States is at its worst. There's no leadership like before
In the days of Obama or before Obama
there was a leadership that had a vision. Biden doesn't have this charisma
and doesn't enjoy this status in
the American political society
Therefore
and also the Ukraine war and relations within NATO have become strained, between the Europeans and Americans
as Kissinger said in his book
"The Troubled Partnership ". He has a book by that title
He wrote it long ago. We studied it as students. Kissinger says
don't be seduced by the shape of the alliance. Inside it
you will discover the troubled
partnership that joins us
Americans with the Europeans
In this situation, China intervenes
China, the silent and soft power that enters into this
storm of passions without inciting any big questions
Look at Africa now. Africa has become a Chinese base
even America can't intervene there. China is coming
and China has reached Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia is keen to show the United States that they also have
external contacts that may serve us in the future, God willing, and so on
And now there's a gamble in the GCC countries
It's publicly-known, a gamble of cooperating with China
but China is careful because it has strategic relations
with Iran. It has a strategic agreement with
Tehran that spans twenty-five years
What's the nature of it?
It's military and strategic. Comprehensive
For joint defence, you see, and this agreement was cleverly
drafted by the Iranian leadership to guard against future developments
and the Iranian leadership truly excelled here
I testify to that in how they were able to sign this strategic agreement with
China, which serves Iran more than China
This agreement is what limits China's ambition in the GCC
Whenever the GCC countries put forward an idea or opinion or
a move, China returns to the Tehran agreement
And therefore I believe China excels in its foreign policy and it focuses
on business and its trade balance
It focuses on the trade balance
However, China is not to be trusted to this degree
In 2021, China approached the United Arab Emirates and said
we need part of the Emirati coast in order to build a port that will be the Chinese port
in the Gulf where our goods and all our dealings will flow through this port
It makes sense, of course
And therefore our brothers in the UAE said, why not? We have a large coastline, choose the place you want
They said, we want this area, and the UAE gave it to them. Of course, this agreement aggravated
the Americans. When China took this coastal region of the Emirates
they said they would start building this new port, right?
What did the Americans do?
They have satellites in the Gulf
and they began watching
what the Chinese were doing in this region. They noticed
that the Chinese weren't building a port. They were building infrastructure
for a military base. They collected photos and
maps and took it to the United Arab Emirates' leadership
when our brothers in the UAE saw the pictures, I mean
of course, they were shocked. They said this wasn't the agreement they had with China and
the Americans said, then this must stop because
this is a Chinese military base and not a port
Fortunately our brothers in the UAE put a stop to it
So China has hidden methods and, of course, they inherited these methods
from ancient administrations
in China which were skilled in political camouflage
China will face a problem in the Gulf, which is the issue of Iran
Iran has strategic relations with China and supplies China with a huge amount of oil
Iran has now sold to many countries, perhaps including China
Iranian-made planes and drones
They've innovated in this
Therefore
I see that this Gulf rush towards China
should be tempered a bit
because the situation may change in the Ukrainian war
and with that the whole scene will change
Since you mentioned Iran, I'd like to talk about this
and it's one of our main topics
What is Iran's view of the GCC countries today?
And why is there such fear of Iran, in general, as a kind of boogeyman in the region?
In 1992, Faisal, I was an advisor in the National Assembly
advisor to Speaker Al-Saadoun
So he said, We're going to visit Iran, and then we'll go to Damascus
I said, alright, so we got on the plane with a group of MPs
and we went to Iran. At the time
in 1992, President Rafsanjani was presiding over the Iranian Republic
and presiding over their Shura Council was a Mullah named Nateq Nuri
so we met with President Rafsanjani and it was a pleasant meeting
He's a formidable man
and I consider him the Bismarck of Iran. He has a dynamic vision
if he had continued, he would have transformed Iran
into an economic giant, but there was a coup against him by the Iranians themselves. Anyhow
Nateq Nuri prepared a luncheon for us
Of course, there was assigned seating at the table
the Iranian study these things. And Iranians excel at chess
historically. Look, Nuri sat beside
Ahmed Al-Saadoun. They're both leaders, so it makes sense
But Abdullah Al-Nafisi was seated beside Hassan Rouhani
who was then the head of the foreign affairs committee, and at the time I was
a consultant with the Foreign Affairs Committee. So he sat beside me
Hassan Rouhani, for lunch, and it was meat. Their dishes are very meat-heavy
And I'm not a meat eater at all
If I eat it, it's only a tiny bit. I prefer fish or vegetarian dishes
So I wasn't eating, and I was talking to Hassan Rouhani
And he asked why I wasn't eating
I replied that all their dishes are meat-based, and I don't like meat
So he called over a server
and they brought me a "falooda" which is
a dessert. So I started eating that while he ate his steak and kebab
He asked if I liked the dessert, and I said, yes
it suits me. He replied, You, in the GCC
are like a "falooda". I asked what he meant, and he said, you smell sweet
you taste sweet, and you're easy to digest
I said, what do you mean by easy to digest?
He replied that if someone were to eat you, it wouldn't upset the stomach
I said, that's a risky statement, Mr Hassan
Should I pass that along to
the speaker of the National Assembly? He said, tell him
and tell your Emir as well
He said, all of you, from Kuwait to the sultanate [of Oman] belong to us historically
and we see you as we see this falooda
In fact, when you review the history of the Arabs and Persians
you will find that the tension is old, Faisal
I mean
the most comprehensive book written in Persia about the Arabs
is the Shahnameh by Ferdowsi
"Shahnameh" means the history or book of Kings. And it's over a thousand pages long
I have it at home. I wanted to bring it with me, but your program is called Bidon Waraq [Without Paper]
so I thought you'd tell me paper is forbidden! So when you read Ferdowsi
it's a disgraceful description of the Arabs. He describes us as
a backward people, that we drink camel urine, we eat locust
and desert animals
and so on. And according to him, what happened in the
Islamic conquest was not a conquest but rather an invasion
an Arab invasion
Therefore, Iran looks at us as the aggressor and the aggressor culture
as we look at it now as posing a threat
So this feeling
this mutual misunderstanding
between us and Iran is old
and I don't think we can overcome it
We will remain in a state of tension with Iran for a long time
Do you think language is another barrier?
Of course, language
Language is one of the factors that causes Iran's sense of isolation
I mean, Iran deals with Arab countries
and feels great isolation in terms of language and therefore a lot of Iranian publications
unfortunately, are unavailable to us. The Iranian press
is not read here because it's in Farsi
Therefore, a newspaper like Kayhan, which I read daily
It's available in Arabic
They felt compelled in Iran to translate Kayhan into Arabic
so that Iran's voice could reach the opposite coast
So language really is a major obstacle
And do you think that western media is also an obstacle in us understanding Iran?
To some extent, but Westerners
have a great deal of interaction with Iran
Our interactions with Iran should be greater. I remember Velayati
when he was foreign minister of Iran, he visited Kuwait and invited me to breakfast
before he went to meet Kuwait's Foreign Minister at the time, Sabah Al-Ahmad
and then he was meeting Jaber Al-Ahmad
He said, I want to have a breakfast with you
So I went to his hotel, the one on Al-Bidaa Street, what's it called
not the Regency, the one after it
Palms?
No, the one owned by Marafi
SAS
SAS, yes, that's where he was staying, so I went and had breakfast with him
He said, Abdullah, I've asked you here
because I have a lot of questions
but the most important one is how can we bring the Iranian press to the Kuwaiti reader?
What year was this, Dr?
This was in the nineties
so I asked him why
and he said because of the language. Language seems to be a barrier
So I said
you must take steps to Arabize the Iranian press and send it to us in Arabic
But isn't this the same person who sees us as a falooda?
I mean, this is the same person who sees us as nothing
so how do we reconcile these two ideas
that he sees us as inconsequential but at the same time wants to convey his culture?
He wants to convey it because he's looking
for a receptive social group here
There isn't one. Language is the obstacle to Iran reaching a supportive segment in the Gulf
Ok, so why is the Iranian-Saudi relationship particularly tense?
I mean, as compared to its relationships with Kuwait or Qatar, which are a bit less so
Yes, well here the sectarian factor enters the equation
of course, here the sectarian factor of Shiite/Sunni comes into play
Of course
the Iranians consider Qom to be the mother of villages while we Sunnis consider
Mecca the mother of villages, right? Professor Larijani
who teaches mathematics at the University of Tehran, and he might be listening to this interview
Prof. Larijani has a theory that one day Qom will be the mother of villages
So it's a real possibility? They believe in it today?
Absolutely. Larijani says
and he may hear me now. Larijani says
Of course, and this Larijani is a thin man
who wear glasses and is a Harvard graduate specialised in
mathematics. And he's a philosopher, of history
and an advisor to Khamenei. He says a day will come
when Qom will be the mother of villages
not Mecca, meaning that there's a fifty-year project
to reach to their goal
So can we say Iran believes
they deserve to be the central leadership or power base
with the most influence in the region
Do they aspire to be the power base in the Gulf region?
They aspire to it, yes. And for that reason, Iran is against Gulf unity
So whenever voices begin calling more loudly for unity among
the GCC countries
Look at how this is reflected
in the Iranian press. The next day you'll find hundreds of articles denouncing it
But this issue or knowledge of this
has surely reached the Gulf leaders
Of course, for sure
And they know we're under western hegemony
whether by our allies or otherwise. And still we see incoherent or fragmented behaviour
and there's no unity or cohesive project
What's the cause of this disintegration?
individual desires
I told you we're still tribal entities
more than we are states
We're still tribes. Tribes with Flags
as Charles Glass said. We remain tribes with flags. And tribes, Faisal
are managed differently than the state
I mean
if you speak to Kuwaitis or Saudis
or Qataris. We all support Gulf unity
but these individual or personal passions of the leaders is the obstacle
But when you look at the Iran-Oman relationship, we find that it's stable
So, what is present in this relationship that's missing from the others?
This case is a historical case where the Sultanate
lives in a state of coexistence with Iran
Especially if you go to the Ras Musandam region and look over the Strait of Hormuz
you'll find that, geographically, it's almost one with Iran
Iran has moral influence with the Sultanate
that you can't imagine
Therefore
officials in Oman check Iran's pulse
before taking any steps
Does this behaviour come from the Sultanate's long history as an independent political entity?
Of course
The Sultanate stretched to Pakistan and reached Zanzibar in Africa
I mean, the Sultanate used to be much vaster than what we see on the map today
The Sultanate had reached New York with its fleets
back in the 19th century while we, here, were still fragmented tribes
that had no entity
So the Sultanate [of Oman] is a country that's completely different in terms of
historical depth. It's a special case, for sure. And consequently
the Sultanate's understanding of international relations exceeds that of the other GCC countries
So there's wisdom behind their decisions?
We can say that there's wisdom behind their decisions?
I think this is very clear to see
And it has become a kind of meeting place. The 2005 nuclear
agreement between Iran and America was facilitated by Oman
Oh, I didn't know that
The Yemeni-Yemeni talks take place in Muscat. The US-Iran nuclear
agreement in 2005 or 2008 was facilitated by Oman
Yes
Ok, so you mentioned in the booklet that the path for us, and I'm quoting
as GCC countries and Iran isn't closed, and if it is closed
then we should have a great interest in opening it
So today with the information that you've just shared
regarding Iran's views of the Gulf states. In spite of that
you call for cooperation with Iran
We don't have another choice, Faisal. There's no other choice. We're in a situation
I call it a siege mentality
We have a siege mentality
We are besieged and a state of siege is very dangerous
What do you mean by siege?
A siege. So, Kuwait, let's talk about Kuwait
Kuwait is located in the heart of a triangle
There's an Iraqi side, an Iranian side, and a Saudi one
And we are at the center of this triangle, tiny Kuwait
Iran has demands vis-a-vis Kuwait, Iraq has demands vis-a-vis Kuwait
Saudi Arabia has demands vis-a-vis Kuwait
and Kuwait has a modest history, of course, maybe three hundred years, if that
For these three hundred years we've been trying to balance between
the demands of Iraq and the demands of Iran and those of Saudi Arabia
This is what I mean by the siege mentality. Therefore
we don't have an independent will. We just strive for security in light of this geographical situation
The same applies to other countries
in the Gulf. They're also living in a siege mentality
and therefore, Faisal, we have no choice but to coexist
with Iran and similar circumstances
Ok, we'd like to move on to talking about the Zionist entity
First of all
If we want to speak today, practically
Is it realistic to look at Iran as an ally and not a foe?
No, it's very difficult to think about
an alliance with Iran
It is possible to establish relations with Iran
which are based on coexistence rather than alliance
Ok, because there are incentives
I read in the booklet we see today attempts by America
to open the way for relations between the GCC countries
and Iran after many attempts to isolate Iran, which didn't work
as I understood it and so today they're trying something new and different to
have an Iran-Gulf dialogue with Western will
It's true, yes. The Americans are taking a very bold step
which is now even being echoed in the US Congress which is
Why not turn Iran from a strategic enemy into a strategic ally?
Imagine, there are members of Congress in America
and there are members of the American intelligentsia
who believe Iran has the potential to become a strategic ally of America
and one of these people is
A doctor of Iranian origin and American nationality
who has a book called The Treacherous Alliance
he imagines that it's possible for a tripartite alliance to take place between
Iran and the United States and Israel
There could be an alliance between these three
He says he met with 30 politicians in Israel
30 officials in Iran and 30 politicians and officials in America
and I asked them this question. Is it possible to form a strategic alliance between
these three states? They all answered yes
It's in the interest of these three countries that this strategic alliance emerges
But today Israel, or the Zionist entity, is a declared enemy of Iran?
It is true and it's important that you said Declared
There are many things, Faisal
which are declared but don't reflect reality
I was on a visit to Tehran and asked about the Jews in Tehran
I asked about the Jews in Tehran
An official in one of the Arab embassies said Jews in Tehran enjoy an exceptional
state of prosperity and live a stable life
I replied that I wanted to hear these words from the Jews themselves in Tehran, not from him
He said go to a street, which is a famous street in Tehran
It'll come to me
It's not far from... anyway I went to it. I'll remember the name
It's a famous street, or a Jewish neighbourhood?
In Tehran, and it's full of Jewish shops
Maybe Muneera can find the name for us
It's a very well-known street in Tehran. It has shops selling antiques
So I went to this street and saw the shops
As I was wandering around I saw
a shop with the Star of David on it. So I went in
And I said, Salam Alaikum [Peace be upon you]
he replied, wa-alaikum al-salam [And on you]. I asked if he spoke English and he did
So I asked what's this sign you have on the door? And he said, this is our emblem
I asked whose emblem it was, and he said for Israel and the jewish people
Our emblem is the Star of David
I asked if he was jewish and he said, yes
I asked if they felt settled. He said he was born there as were his children
and grandchildren and they were settled. I asked if they were comfortable in Iran
He said very comfortable. I asked why they hadn't emigrated to Israel. And he said there was no need
Iran is like Israel for us. What we would enjoy in Israel is what we have here
I asked if they visit Israel, and he said they go back and forth
They board the plane from Tehran to Cyprus, then Cyprus to Israel
You see? So they go through Cyprus
and catch a connecting flight to Israel
and we return the same way with no problem
And he said, we have representatives in Tehran, in the Shura Council in Tehran
It's not forbidden?
Not at all, not at all. And therefore
I'm trying to remember the street as well as the name of the author of the book while talking to you
So why is there an Iranian problem today?
The Iran-Israel problem is a media problem
more than it is a real one. And we see that
Israel has been threatening since the seventies that it would strike Iran
How many years have passed now? Fifty years? Since the seventies
and Israel threatens to strike Iran. From 1979
they've been threatening to strike Iran. And in the eighties
as well, when it struck the Iraqi reactor in 1981
it threatened that Iran would be next
But the Israelis themselves know they can't do that
because the United States prevents them from doing so
The United States is fully aware that Iran is capable of becoming a strategic ally
all that's required is for the current political regime to change
The Iranian regime? It's impossible for it to change
It can change. It can. The Shah's regime changed
Why shouldn't this one change? The Shah's system was much older than this one
But there's a sectarian fanaticism to this one
where the structure itself is loyal to the regime
This is correct. But the population now seems to be fragmenting
Are you following developments?
Yes, I'm following the protests and demonstrations that continue to this day
And I imagine that this situation may lead to something big in Iran
The Americans are very optimistic about this
They have great optimism about the transformation that might take place in Tehran
that could happen soon. And some Americans say, If we can
form a strategic alliance with Iran
we can break the back of the Arabs without interfering in Arab affairs
Look, look at the extent of their thinking
The Americans want Iran as one of their means to curb the Arabs
and therefore their role in Yemen
The Houthis are now a tool of Iran. If you go to the US embassy in Sana'a and
the British Embassy in Sana'a
And ask them what do you think of the Houthis?
They say this is a local movement, a local conflict with no connection to Iran
You see what I mean? They'll say the Houthis have the right to do what they do. They defend the Houthis
Our political leadership in the region know this?
They know, but they can't do anything about it
Why? because this is a studied American strategy
and I told you that we're in a state of dependence to the Americans
and our will is not independent of the Americans
When could our will be independent of America?
It's difficult. Difficult, difficult
But is it impossible, I mean?
Not impossible. But it's difficult given the current context
and situation of the Gulf and the Middle East region and international conflicts
we are like the prey and the Americans are the falcon
What if our countries were transformed into real institutions?
This is different. If GCC countries were transformed into institutional states
propped up by active political participation
and leadership were collective, not individual
These requirements for a successful modern state
if they were fulfilled in the GCC
then the scene would change completely
So, that's the obstacle then?
Definitely, that's a significant obstacle
Ok, so returning to the current situation, if there were an Iranian-Saudi dialogue
with the support of the United States
would that not be a threat to the Zionist entity?
No. Zionism, as it's embodied in the Zionist entity, is a tool
in the hands of the Americans
During the US-Iraq war, after the invasion of Kuwait. When Saddam invaded Kuwait
Israel wanted to strike Iraq because it saw this Iraqi expansion as threatening their security
So they asked for Bush, the senior's, permission to strike Saddam
to shake him internally. Bush lifted a finger and said, Don't do that
and he sent one of his assistants, Brent, I believe, to warn them
even though Saddam had fired 52 Scud missiles
into Israel-proper, and Haifa and Jaffa became ghost towns
and so Israel moved to strike Saddam and America ordered them not to take that step
Because if they did, it would ruin everything
If Israel had attacked Iraq at that time, then Saddam would have become
a hero, right?
So Israel does America's bidding, completely
Ok, so today there's a complicated matter, Dr
with regards to the Gulf-Zionist relationship. Some countries have normalised
relations while other countries have no relationship with the
Zionist Entity. So speaking now practically and with complete objectivity
What can we do in the face of this complex issue?
Who do you mean by "we"?
Let's speak about the GCC countries in general
is it possible for us to even connect or unite
in a larger project? Especially since the idea of normalisation
at least in Kuwait, it's still impossible for any thought to be posed
even in the media,
of normalising relations, or even politically, I mean
So what does the future relationship between [GCC] countries look like?
especially given the West's desire for there to be normalised relations in the region?
If you can reflect on this, practically, for Kuwait, I mean
Of course. We, in Kuwait, in reality are a unique case
in the Gulf. Years ago, we founded, and I can't remember the exact year
but we established the People's Congress Against Normalisation with the Zionist Entity in the Gulf
and I'm honoured to have chaired this congress and we inaugurated it
here in Kuwait. It was attended by a large number of parliamentarians and officials
And it was financed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Muhammad Sabah Al-Salem
he was the one who financed us
And he said, Speak openly and say what you want. We are against normalisation
And indeed, Khaled Meshaal came and attended with us
and Abdullah Al-Nibari spoke, may God have mercy on him, and Dr Al-Khatib spoke, may God have mercy on him
A large group of dignitaries in the country spoke against normalisation
So we are a unique case, really. I remember that the commercial representative
of Israel in Muscat wrote an article about us and our People's Congress
He published this article in The Jerusalem Post and
the headline was "The Dogs that Bark in Kuwait". This was in The Jerusalem Post
So, I read the article and I replied with "The Dog that Barks in Muscat", you see
So, I said, at least we're dogs barking in our own land and our own camp
I said, but you're a Polish man, what right do you have coming to the region
so that you can bark and disturb us? And so on
So, in fact, there was a lot of debate that year about coexistence
I mean, the GCC states should come together to resist normalisation
I was very upset when I heard that the Sultanate had received
a representative from Israel and Qatar
received Peres and then they received a commercial representative from Israel
And then, there was some Israeli-Bahraini activity. This fluctuating situation
and then the Emirates followed them
This state of fluctuation will only result in further weakening of the GCC
Because for a significant decision such as this
there must be unity behind it
Absolutely. How can we call ourselves a regional cooperation council
based on an idea of Gulf unity, and act in such a way?
I see this as a departure even
from the founding document on which the GCC was established
I mean, when the Gulf Cooperation Council was established
it was based on the idea that we're united by a way of thinking and vision
As for what has happened now
it's a disfiguration of the founding document of the Gulf Cooperation Council
And we must find a way out of this impasse urgently, I mean
I have a final question on Kuwait
but before that
Can we say that the GCC is ineffective or just a symbol now? What do you think?
It's unfortunate that we have to say this
I wish I could say other than this, I mean
I wish the Cooperation Council really lived up to its name
Unfortunately, that's not the case though
and unfortunately Gulf cooperation is at its lowest levels
and therefore the GCC must reconsider
its current status and state which is a kind of paralysis
So you think it would be better not to have it rather than having an ineffective council?
Unfortunately, yes. It would be better if it didn't exist because
for it to exist but be ineffective means that the idea is killed
Yes
Ok so now the final question is regarding Kuwait
As we're meeting in Kuwait, and this is recorded in Kuwait
and you're joining us here in the studio, if I could ask for your
analysis regarding the Kuwaiti situation
Where are we now? Especially after the initial features of the New Era have emerged
Where are we, and where do you think we're heading?
maybe just in the near future even?
I mean, this is a question, the question of the day
the question of the day. The speech which the Crown Prince delivered
some months ago, was an illuminating one
We were all very optimistic because it was a well-considered speech
And we said Thank God the leadership has begun to consider
the idea of self-criticism
The speech acknowledged that there had been deviations
and the speech stated that a correction was necessary. The speech
acknowledged that this deviation must stop, and the path must be corrected
The fact is we've been calling for such a speech for a long time
and we'd hoped that such a speech would bring to fruition a distinct Kuwaiti case
but, unfortunately, as yet nothing has come from the speech
There hasn't been a correcting of the course
and I'll say that the experience of [redacted] is in security and military
I won't give any names
But the experience is in security and the military. There's a lack of political experience
And this isn't a deficiency. There are many countries, superpowers even
Many representatives are elected
such as Ronald Reagan who was an actor in American cinema
and he became the president of America. But since he was an actor
and then president of the most powerful country in the world
he did not hesitate to appoint political consultants. So he had
high-caliber political advisers and used them and they commanded the American ship
I say that since Kuwait's [redacted] lacks political experience
they should seek the help of a Kuwaiti apparatus of political consultants
which can lead it towards correcting the path
and unfortunately we personally urged this idea to [redacted] saying, you need a political consulting body
with you 24 hours a day
Like a 24-hour store. You need this apparatus guiding you down a secure path
Unfortunately, this advice wasn't acted on. And consultation continues to be from friends
and brothers, and the sycophants, and these are not political advisors
and that's why I see this [political] deadlock
we're experiencing now in Kuwait, for example
between the government and the National Assembly
it would be simple to ease this blockage if there was an advisory body
for those who lack political experience
Volodymyr Zelenskyy, [president] of Ukraine, was a comedian
This is the Adel Emam of the Ukraine
I mean, this is a man from the world of art
and a man famous for being cynical and satirical towards governments, you see
But when he came to power, he brought in advisors. The former president of Georgia
became his advisor in the Republican Palace
Believe it or not, Zelenskyy has achieved something incredible
He shocked us all
We're all shocked. And it's because of his advisors. Can you believe he still goes to the office despite the war in Kiev
He sits in the same chair, enters from the same gate, in defiance of Putin
He caused a revolution in the Ukrainian leadership
and he visited the United States a week or two ago
and you must have seen the standing ovations he received
So the man has proven all this because of the political advice he's received
I insist through this interview that the Kuwaiti leadership
for whom we have every love and wish all the best that it benefit from political advice
that can turn the Kuwaiti arena into a more joyful one not one of tension
Do you think that today, since you were an MP
Do you think that the MPs lack, not all of them
but I would say most of them, lack the correct political thought
that could lead us to where we need to go
and that claims have become driven by people's demand and opportunistic
and that, even after the Crown Prince's speech, none of the issues they bring up are vital ones
because all their desires were fulfilled before the speech
And so since the speech, there are no real issues
so secondary, populist issues have emerged instead
What is your analysis of this situation?
I say that the Kuwaiti people in the next elections
need to reconsider their selection because this Parliament
the majority of its Members, unfortunately
I say unfortunately, have proven
subject to popular pressure rather than to facts, as most of them know it
The most dangerous thing in politics, Faisal, is that the crowd leads you
It's the most dangerous thing. You must lead the crowd
And when you feel that the crowd is about to lead you, you should resign
remove yourself completely
Public pressure is what demolishes
the democratic and parliamentary situation
And I see that the MPs' raising of the issue of loans is a very serious indication
Popular pressure on the MPs indicates that
Diwans are leading them not the other way around
Thank you, Dr. You've honoured and enlightened us. You can't imagine how happy
I am that you joined us
How was it?
It was fantastic
But I've been trying to remember the name of the street. No, no, now I'll remember it. Very well-known
Try typing jewish neighbourhood in Iran
or jewish ghetto in Tehran
So it was good?
Fantastic, how did you find the experience?
I have a lot of things that I didn't manage to say
We didn't want to tire you
No, I didn't want to put you on the spot by saying certain things
especially when we talked about the Kuwait issue
No, no, no, I was afraid of tiring you
