At that time, if you look closely at history, you will find 
that in fact, the Brotherhood had decided not to rule.
That was in April and they announced that 
they didn't want to interfere in the government.
After that, they changed their mind, which was
one of the main mistakes the Brotherhood made in Egypt,
and thus they entered into ruling the country.
So whether it was the candidacy of Khairat al-Shater
 at the beginning, and then the candidacy of Morsi,
in my opinion, this was all wrong and a huge mistake.
Listen to me, this does not apply only to the Brotherhood,
but anyone or any party that tries to govern 
after a revolution or war will not succeed.
Good evening, and welcome to our podcast "Bidon Waraq",
 we always try to make sure that we welcome everyone
to this platform regardless of their political opinions, 
and regardless if we personally agree or disagree with them.
Here, we like to bring up topics with complete objectivity, 
so our goal today is to normalize
the idea of accepting all opinions with respect
and without creating ill thoughts about their opinions.
In "Bidon Waraq" Podcast we are used to presenting
 new models or existing ones in the media,
but from a different angle or you can say a new angle. 
For Dr. Tareq Al-Suwaidan, in the past ten years
or specifically after the Arab Spring, most of the media 
interviews were more like a trial or intense interviews.
Today we were keen to sit with Dr. Tareq and understand
 his point of view, to give him the chance
to express his views with all ease starting from preaching 
to Islam, joining the Muslim Brotherhood, the Arab Spring,
the stereotypical image of the Muslim Brotherhood,
 the political action of the Muslim Brotherhood,
and other ideas that I felt, or we, 
who are in charge of "Bidon Waraq" podcast,
felt that he did not take his right to clarify them, 
at least in the recent period.
In "Bidon Waraq", we try as much as possible to make sure
 to host people with significant impact, and you, as viewers,
can shape your opinions completely independently. If you like
 our content, the biggest support you can provide for us
is sharing this content with people who 
you think are interested in this content.
When we looked at the analyzes we have on YouTube,
 we saw that 80% of the viewers are people
who watch the episodes more than once, 
but so far they have not subscribed to the channel.
Subscriptions to the channel also give us the space
 to expand even at the level of who we host.
I wish you enjoy this episode, my name is Faisal Al-Aqel 
and I present "Bidon Waraq" Podcast.
This design is nice, is this feminine taste? Nice.
-We'd like to welcome you. 
-Thank you.
I will not give any introductions,
 and we will move on to the topic directly،
Yes, go on.
Welcome again. Dr. Tareq, we have more than one idea 
today that we want to discuss with you,
but I am especially interested in getting 
to know you personally through this conversation,
we would like to get to know you 
personally before anything else,
so we were wondering from where 
or what is the most suitable point to start with.
So we agreed to start from when you were young
 and used to live in Hawally and Al-Neqrah.
Nice.
Let's start with what you remember from back then,
what do you recall from the time you used 
to live in Hawally or Al-Neqrah.
-Yes, so we were brought up in the East.
-East of Hawally.
Yes, we lived in Al Derwaza. Yes, I remember the old Kuwait,
 and I remember when there was no electricity,
we used to drink salty water stored in our backyard.
Our parents used to put Hanna in our hands
 and hair when the weather get so hot.
I remember these days, and then from the East, 
we moved to Al-Neqrah.
When we lived in Al-Neqrah, 
we had a building and a house.
We leased the building and used to live from the rent money 
and we lived in the house,
where we used to live there was a large spacious
 area in front of us, not a lot of people used to live there,
there were only two or three buildings at that time,
 so we were one of the first people to live in Al-Neqrah.
How was life in Al-Neqrah? What about the school? 
Did you go to school on foot or by car?
No, we used to walk to school. I used to go to Hariri School, 
which is five minutes away from our house on foot.
But most importantly, 
the mosque in which I grew up and met my sheikhs,
and it was also a five-minute walk from my house.
Did you to the mosque because your family taught
 you to go to the mosque, or was it by coincidence?
No, no, Glory be to Allah, you see Allah Almighty says,
"Allah chooses for Himself whom He wills
 and guides to Himself whoever turns back to Him".
So guidance is achieved in two ways: The first way is that whoever 
wants guidance, Allah gives him guidance.
"guides to Himself whoever turns back to Him". 
The second way is that Allah chooses whom He wills.
When I was young, they used to call me milla
 (i.e. religion), Glory be to Allah,
this is because Allah Almighty blessed me 
with the love for Islam since I was young.
Sometimes I was the only one who would go to the mosque.
You used to go to the mosque 
to learn about Islam or just to pray?
No, I only went to pray but when I was in high school,
I started attending religious
 lessons for Sheikh Omar Al-Ashqar.
Dr. Abd al-Rahman Abd al-Khaliq 
was also in our mosque, may Allah have mercy on him.
There were two mosques in the neighbourhood
both were five minutes away from my house.
So this was in the first mosque,
in the second mosque, there were Sheikh Hasan Ayoub 
and Sheikh Hasan Tannoun.
These sheikhs are great scholars,
 Hasan Ayoub and Hasan Tanoun
were experts in the art of public speaking,
 so I learned it from them.
Dr. Omar and Dr. Abd al-Rahman, 
may Allah have mercy on them, were distinguished scholars,
they were scholars in Sharia, jurisprudence, creed and interpretation. 
We had about five lessons every week,
which I used to always attend.
So you used to attend all these lessons? Then why
 did you enter the field of engineering and this science?
My major in engineering has a different story. 
Of course, at school, praise be to Allah,
I was a top-ranked student and ranked second in school, 
and ranked twenty-six at the level of Kuwait as well.
You had no hobbies?
You see, I practised the traditional youth hobbies,
 did some light sports. I was not very connected to sports.
Actually, I used to love reading from a young age,
 I used to read a lot of stories and books, etc.
After that, my reading of books became
 a systematic reading, this was later of course.
But in the beginning, I would read anything I could
 lay my hands on and I had a great love for reading.
But as for my choice of majoring in engineering,
 this is another story and a nice one.
What happened is that when I graduated from high school, 
my mother, may Allah have mercy on her,
told me that I should study medicine 
and she wanted me to become a doctor.
At that time, I used to analyse everything, 
this way my way when I want to make a decision.
So, I thought that the doctor's life would be difficult 
for me as his life is not his alone.
The hospital or patients may ask 
and call for him during the night or the day,
and I did not find that this life 
and profession is for me, so I refused.
At that time, I had a scholarship
 because I was one of the top students in the state.
So I had a scholarship with flexible options 
to any place and in any major. I could choose what I want.
At that time the options were a little more open.
So, I refused to study medicine 
and thus I had an argument with my mother.
So, some people stepped in and posed
 a compromise, they said at least do this.
I wanted to stay in Kuwait and not leave 
to study abroad so they suggested a compromise solution
and asked me to study engineering instead of medicine. 
This is the reason why I entered engineering,
it was not purposely or by choice,
 but because of these pressures,
I wanted to stay in Kuwait and study Sharia 
or something I like but they wanted me to study medicine
in compliance with my mother's desire, 
despite my dislike of this major,
so the compromise solution was engineering.
But you said before that studying engineering 
was a good choice for you,
and it taught you how to organise your ideas
You see, anyone who enters the field 
of engineering and goes deeper into it,
especially if he studies it at a good university 
that its capabilities are good,
engineering will teach him the methodology of thinking,
 it will teach him the methodology of analysis,
and the methodology of solving problems.
These skills, especially the skill of analysis, change a person's life, 
and therefore you can see that engineers in general,
are among the great thinkers and outstanding authors,
 many of them excelled in the science of management by the way.
You see, the one who founded the science of management 
and who developed it was Frederick Taylor
and Fayol who was an engineer as well. 
Yes, he was an engineer.
this is true, great scholars who specialized
 in management were engineers
Engineering opens doors for you because it teaches you
 the methodology of analysis and teaches you how to learn.
It teaches you how to learn. 
Yes, and so this will open all doors for you.
I want to ask you, it is said today that
 the technological solutions in demand today
that stimulate the world forward 
are purely engineering solutions, is that true?
well, that is...
That's what Elon Musk is saying.
Of course, the basis of all science in the end is...
Engineering is not the basis, 
but the mother of all sciences is mathematics.
This is the root of sciences, even psychology.
 If you learned about psychology in-depth,
you will know that mathematics 
is the basis for every science.
The science of mathematics is based on the science of logic, 
the whole science of logic is based on arithmetic logic.
So in addition to studying engineering, 
I also studied arithmetic logic, I studied the basis of logic,
and this actually helps you in life, but if you are asking
 me about future expectations in this field,
I will say of course it is related to engineering,
but what I expect is that artificial intelligence
 is the future of humanity, in my opinion.
Let us move on to talk about the time 
you lived in America and your scholarship in America.
You said that you were interested in Sharia, 
but you studied engineering in the end.
Did America influence you from an intellectual angle?
 I mean you have certain ideas and views
that you learned in Kuwait and Hawally
 when you were among the sheikhs,
I want you to tell me about the influence of America on you.
Listen, the influence of America on me was from more 
than one part, my study, my major and the university
influenced and changed me. Of course, a person will change
 and be influenced when he comes into contact
with different civilizations, when he sees different ways
 of working, how people obey the system, respect time,
when he sees the methodology in the discussion,
 and reversing mistakes.
Unfortunately, these values were not spread in my country 
and they are still missing and do not exist much.
We still have a problem with following them. 
These things I learned during my stay in America itself.
Of course, I also learned English, because at that time
 the system was that we have to live with an American family,
and to study the last year of high school again
 and then take a certificate from an American school.
So I had two high school certificates
 one from Kuwait, and another from America,
so I lived the American life in all its details. And then, 
when I went to university, I was forced to live in a dormitory,
so I had very strong contact with the Americans, 
so I knew everything about American life.
Of course, these things changed me.
Also engineering itself and studying it with all 
that it contains changed me
a third thing is the skills I acquired.
There were subjects in engineering we had 
to study and other optional ones in different filed.
The university system required us 
to take about half of the subjects in engineering,
but the second half was elective subjects, 
and because I did not know how to speak to the public,
and how to speak to a large audience.
So I took courses in the art of public speaking, and they taught me, 
I learned the art of public speaking in a systematic way.
What is the most important thing in the art 
of public speaking that you learned?
Of course, the art of public speaking revolves around 
three main things: content, technique, and movement.
These are the most important things. How to prepare the right content,
 the technique including the voice,
its controls, layers and formations,
 and the third thing is movement, facial emotions,
hand movements, and walking in front of the audience.
You see, maybe I am the first person to give lectures
 in Kuwait while standing and walking.
This was not done when presenting lectures in the past.
Yes, this was not the norm. People always presented
 lectures while sitting, so of course I learned this there.
But one of the most important things that changed me
 in America is when I was made to be active and in charge.
When I went there, I saw that there were 
 Muslim students who wanted to pray in a congregation
or perform the Friday prayer, and they didn't have a preacher.
So I was forced to become the preacher and
 the imam, and they did not have a mufti,
so I had to search for a fatwa sometimes or contact the scholars 
in order to come up with a solution to a jurisprudential issue.
I was an imam and khatib in Friday sermons for seventeen years.
That was in America?
In America, yes. And then I interacted with others because
 we were managing the Islamic work in America,
praise be to Allah, I could establish the Arab Muslim Youth 
Association with a group of my Muslim brothers.
Senior scholars from all over the world used to attend our events, 
and I was the main organizer of these conferences.
The number of attendees at our conferences
 may sometimes reach seven thousand people,
they would stay for five days and we had to provide them with
 a place to sleep and food, so I learned management through this.
Can you imagine that you have to handle seven thousand 
people, including two thousand women with their children,
and provide them with housing and feed them,
 and plan activities for them,
By the way, I used to act and write plays and so on.
Plays like what?
Islamic plays.
I mean, did you write the plays or acted in them?
I did both. We were a group of amateurs.
I with a group of brothers used to write the play during 
the conference, rehearse it during the conference,
and on the last day 
and which we used to call the closing event,
of course, this closing event is the most beloved element in 
all the conferences that we organize for most people,
sometimes some people may miss a lecture but this event 
they will never miss because it was desirable to everyone.
So as I said one of the main things that changed me
 was that I could interact with great scholars,
also, we had freedom, we could say whatever we wanted,
 criticize the conditions in the Arab world, criticise dictatorships,
criticise America itself and we were in America,
 so I learned to love freedom and learned to love science,
and life forced me that in the end, 
I had to go deep into Islamic science,
I also used to give lectures in Arabic and in English,
 including Islamic lectures.
But of course, one of the most important things that 
I benefited from of all this because
I was one of the main organizers, thus I was able 
to host senior scholars sometimes at my home,
and I interacted personally with them. 
You can see a different side of them
when you interact with them in daily life 
not just during lectures. That's for sure.
Abdullah bin Wahb learned from Imam Malik, 
and he said beautiful words,
"I accompanied Imam Malik for twenty years,
 one year of which I took from his knowledge,
and nineteen years I learned his manners, 
and I wish I spent all these years learning his manners."
So having the right manners and morals, 
and the devotion of a person to his religion and his nation,
all of this I learned from the scholars of the nation.
You asked me what was one of the main changes
 I went through, by the way, I learned Shari'ah science
and was brought up by the Brotherhood and I also interacted
 with Salafists, so I was influenced by both,
therefore the creed I follow is Salafi, my methodology is 
Salafi and the call for Islam is like the call of the Brotherhood.
What is the difference between the Salafi and the Brotherhood?
The Salafists focus more on the accuracy of knowledge,
 the accuracy of what is permitted and forbidden,
the accuracy of hadith, and sometimes with a bit of extremism.
As for the Brotherhood, they have more openness,
 more democracy, and more gentleness in the call.
In short, and this is in general. 
In fact, I was more influenced by the Salafists at that time,
I had a little bit of extremism, 
and I had a very long beard.
I can't imagine you like that.
Yes, I have a picture from when I had a long beard,
 so I had this mentality of Salafists,
then when I interacted with great scholars, 
such as Dr. Al-Qaradawi, Salman Al-Awda and others,
I directly interacted with them, and I saw another
 view of jurisprudence and I saw a deeper
and wider understanding of religion so I changed,
 so when I returned, I mean when I returned to Kuwait
I was different from the Brotherhood and different
 from the Salafists, I had another methodology
that you can say is for the whole world, 
a global methodology not a Kuwaiti methodology.
What is the difference between the global
 and the Kuwaiti methodology?
The Kuwaiti methodology takes into 
account the situation in Kuwait,
thinking in a way that suits the people of Kuwait,
 and this is a beautiful aspect.
As for the global methodology, you see I am now able 
to give lectures in Algeria, for example, or lectures in Indonesia,
and I understand and know them because
 when we were running the Islamic work there,
I was one of the people who had a major role 
in establishing Islamic work in Malaysia, for example,
so I interacted and come to know them, so I saw another jurisprudence
 and I saw another way of preaching
and a different way of thinking, 
so I became more global in my call, this is in short.
Now let's talk about when you lived in America,
 I want you to tell me if this information is wrong
and to correct me, since you lived 
in America, you had the vision that
the role of women should be greater in the social aspect 
and you even have an Islamic basis for this.
Of course.
I want to understand if these beliefs 
came from living in America,
let's say, influenced by the American environment
 and American culture, or are these opinions
are from the sheikhs you mentioned, 
and I want you to give me the Islamic proof behind your view.
in fact, these both influenced and shaped this view.
 When we were brought up with the view of Islamic work,
and even today this idea still exists, that women's
 work in the movement is separate from men's work.
The Islamic women's movement has its own specificity 
and privacy and has its own field of work,
and when there are social events it is the norm 
for us that men and women set in separate rooms
and have lunch and eat separately,
 not in the same hall or room.
This was a phenomenon, and even when I was in America 
at first, this what was the norm in the events we organized,
even when I hosted people in my house, men sat
 away from women in another room, but with days
and also after reading the Sharia itself, 
I saw that Islam does not command us to do this,
and that if there is decency and
 respect in the gathering of both genders,
then it is okay for both to sit in one place,
 whether it is a social event or an Islamic teaching event.
Then I saw that when a woman participates in the work, 
she adds and presents elements that men can't add,
women are more creative, 
and they have a deeper understanding of relationships,
by the way, the studies are very clear in showing that 
when a woman participates in the leadership of an institution,
the institution will improve in many aspects, 
even the financial aspect,
what I'm saying is based on scientific and practical research.
At first, for several years, I stuck with what is the norm
 for us in Kuwaiti, and then when I started reading,
especially when I read
 "Women's Liberation in the Era of the Message",
which was written by Abdul Halim Abu Shuqqa
 may Allah have mercy on him.
This book with all it contains is based only on the Holy Qur’an, 
and the Hadiths collected by Bukhari and Muslim only,
and it shows you that social life and the relationship
 between male and female Companions were open.
The Prophet used to gather female
 companions and eat with them.
So the matter is different from what we are used to,
 so I became convinced that women should participate more,
they should participate in the leadership of the work itself more, 
and even participate in political and other work,
when I returned to Kuwait I was one of the people who strongly
 supported women's right to vote or candidacy for elections,
although unfortunately,
 the Islamic Movement at that time was against this.
So I was one of the banner bearers who said no,
 this matter must change it has changed.
Indeed, some things have changed.
Of course, this is based on 
verified and detailed Islamic grounds.
This is what I want to understand. Sorry for 
the interruption, but I want to know.
From where did the people 
in Kuwait and the Arab world get
the belief to separate men and women in gathering
big part of this is because of what is known in history,
and because of the customs and traditions,
by the way, this issue is seen in a different
 way according to the Islamic school one follow,
do you understand what I mean?
For example, the Hanbalis have strictness on this issue, 
the Hanafis are more open,
so when one comes into contact
 with everyone from different schools...
Such as the beautiful words of Imam Al-Shafi’i,
 he said, that if a disagreement occurs, denial rises.
When I disagree with you, I should not eliminate your opinion,
 I have my opinion, I respect your opinion
and you respect my opinion, 
we should not eliminate each other opinions.
In the past, we used to deny what others say and say
 this is a deviation and they are not adhering to the religion,
let's take the example of the Prophet's Hadith
"A people who make a woman
 their ruler will never be successful."
this is an authentic Hadith narrated by Bukhari, 
but it is not understood by people as it should be.
Can you explain the Hadith?
The hadith talks about a story that happened
 during the days of the Prophet, peace be upon him.
When Khosrau was the ruler of Persia and you know
 how when the ruling families expand in numbers
and are in rule for a long time, plots 
and even assassinations among them will take place,
and this is a natural phenomenon in humans, 
all this is for the sake of taking the rule,
so this is what happened in the Sasanian family 
that ruled the Persians.
Khosrau was afraid that 
they would take the rule from his son the crown prince,
so he made a weird decision and ordered the soldiers 
to kill all the males of the Sasanian family, which is his family,
so they were all killed, including the male children,
 as Pharaoh did, he killed them all,
the only males were him and his only son,
 but his son died after that and then he died,
and they could not find a man in the family to rule them 
so they chose the daughter of Khosrau to rule them.
The news reached the Prophet peace be upon him,
 and the Prophet did not give an order when he said this,
rather he expressed that this is a strange matter, that is,
 they can't find a man to rule over them, so how will they succeed,
and the evidence that this is not an order is that
 Bukhari when he listed this hadith in his book,
Bukhari divided his book into sections and chapters
 and among the chapters, there are two chapters,
one is called  leadership, which contains hadiths
 about leadership, and a chapter called the prophecy,
which contains expectations of the Prophet,
 this hadith is not listed in the leadership chapter.
This hadith is in the chapter of prophecy,
accordingly, we concluded that
 the Prophet was telling news and not an order.
Another piece of evidence is that the great companions 
Talhah, Al-Zubayr, and Abdullah bin Al-Zubayr,
all of whom accepted that a woman
 would lead them in the Battle of the Camel,
I refer to Aisha, and there is other many evidence too.
True, yes, Dr. Tareq, we want to talk 
about that time when you went to America,
usually, those who travel to America and see this openness 
and see the environment and see civilization,
and how they are years ahead of us, especially 
at the time you went there, they were at their peak.
However, you were not affected by Western American thought.
Even though they were ahead of time 
and an advanced country,
What did you see that prevented 
you from being affected by them?
No, I was affected, and I changed a lot.
I mean, in terms of religion.
Look, first of all, my physique and body are 
Kuwaiti but my mind is an American and global one,
which means, of course, I was influenced by the way of their thinking, 
I was influenced by their keenness for knowledge,
proficiency and progress, the great respect for the other opinion
 and the system, I was greatly influenced by all this till this day.
For example, I just came from the mosque 
and saw how the shoe shelves were empty.
Perhaps there were only my shoes 
and one other person's shoes on the shelves
while everyone else's shoes were on the floor.
This chaos that people live in is unbelievable.
No, of course, I was affected by the American culture, 
but in terms of religion, I was not affected, no but also I was affected,
I was both affected and unaffected in the sense that,
 praise be to Allah, I did not deviate from Islam.
I am one of the people who have been honoured by Allah. 
I did not go through the period of adolescence.
By the way, I do not believe 
that there is such a thing as adolescence.
What do you mean?
I mean, people relate that this age,
 from fifteen to twenty years,
that this is a period when young people
 become rebellious, and they have what you can say ...
their hormones change...
Hormones make a person deviate 
and cause him to act in uncontrolled behaviour.
No, human behaviour is a decision and his behaviour
 is in his hands, not in the hands of hormones.
If hormones are the ones that control us, then Allah
 Almighty will not hold us accountable for what we do.
But Allah Almighty will hold us accountable for our actions,
whether during adolescence or at any age,
as long as a person has reached puberty, he is accountable,
and therefore there is no such thing as subconscious awareness
 that controls me or hormones that control me.
My behaviour is a decision I make, so thank Allah
 I did not go through the period of adolescence.
Also, praise be to Allah, in America, Allah has honoured me 
that I did not go through a phase of deviation.
From the beginning of my stay in America, I entered
 the Islamic work, and my days were filled with this,
for example, Dr. Ahmed Tutanji, who was 
the leader of the Islamic work in America at that time
chose me to be with him in the leadership 
of the work, and I was only nineteen years old.
This engagement with these great people and getting to know
 their methodologies and judgments taught me leadership,
taught me da’wah, taught me how to speak,
 taught me fatwas, and taught me Sharia knowledge.
But I also learned Christianity and Judaism 
and took courses in comparing religions,
and of course, I had discussions and debates with priests,
so my understanding of religion was not without
 a conscious, but with true conviction.
There are two ways to reach true faith, 
the way of submission and the method of doubt.
The method of submission is that 
I submit that what I have learned is the truth,
and I believe that there is no truth other than my religion.
The other method is the method of doubt,
i.e. thinking that there is a possibility 
that another religion may be better than ours.
That there is a possibility that another person's opinions
 are better than ours, and here I have to study other religions
to get my answer, and learn about them and compare them.
So the faith I reached praise be to Allah, 
was not merely submission, at first it was submission,
but American life taught me that doubt 
is the deepest path to faith and if you doubted,
and then looked for an answer after studying
 deeply, then your faith will be more solid
than the one who converted to Islam 
because only his father and mother are Muslims.
I believe that you said that the seed of Ar-Risala Channel 
and the media project began in America,
as I understood that the idea began in America.
No, it became clear to me in America that
 we should pay more attention to the media,
but the Al-Risala channel is not my idea.
Al-Risala channel is the idea of
 his highness prince Al-Waleed bin Talal.
I was hoping that we have a presence and impact in the media, 
whether it is a satellite channel or even drama or films or others.
I was hoping for this, but I had neither 
the opportunity nor the tools nor the money.
Once, and this is a funny story, I was in the Great Mosque 
of Mecca, and we were going for Umrah.
I and a group of four or five young men 
were still in the Grand Mosque
when I received a call asking me to meet with his highness 
prince Al-Waleed, I travelled the next day to Riyadh,
and I did not know what he wanted.
But I expected that he wanted 
to open an Islamic channel, so the idea was his idea,
and he told me that I was one of the candidates
 for this project, and there was a long way
and discussions in the presence of advisors and so on,
 and then he was the one who chose me to direct the channel.
Why did you accept?
What is my goal in my whole life? My goal is to spread 
pure Islamic thought and civilized renaissance thought.
We are trying to change the backwardness that afflicted
 the nation for four hundred years and to revive our nation again.
This is my goal in life.
There is thought and tools for spreading thought,
 what are the most powerful tools for spreading thought?
Number one is media, number two is education,
 and after that comes books, courses and lectures,
but number one is media and number two is education,
I used the media, 
and I had some presence but it was very little.
For example, I had lessons on the Holy Quran radio channel 
and lessons on Kuwait TV,
but I did not have international fame, so when
 this opportunity came to me, why would I hesitate?
I remember and I do not forget when His Highness the Prince asked me about my projects and goals and so on.
After that, he said to me, “Okay, but if I offered you
 this position in Al-Risala channel,
you would have to stop many of your projects.”
 I told him I have no problem cancelling 60% of my projects.
Because this is a major project,
 so there is thought and tools for spreading thought.
When I have the chance to use the most important tool 
why would I hesitate, so I agreed to do this job.
Let's talk about this now, since we have opened the topic 
of Al-Resala channel, you founded it from scratch, right?
Yes, I did. Nice, what was your practical plan
 or what was your plan that you wanted to implement?
You see, the first thing you have to know is that
 there is management, and there is a goal.
As for management, praise be to Allah, 
I understand management.
In addition to studying engineering, I studied management. 
It is true that I did not take an official certificate,
but I took more courses in management 
than in engineering.
I am well-versed in the science of 
management,
and I have established businesses 
and managed large businesses.
So, from a managerial point of view, I did not have a problem, 
but I did not manage a media job,
the media is not my field, excuse me.
Is it high for you?
 Do you want me to adjust it for you?
I had never established a media business before,
 so the solution was... Sorry, it slipped again.
Yes, put it like this, this is better.
As I was saying that there is media and management.
 I was good with management, but as for the media,
it is true that I had my own media programs, 
but I did not manage media work,
so the solution was to call people who are experts in media, 
so I gathered five people, Dr. Abdullah Jawdat,
and brother Ahmed Abu Haiba from Egypt,
 I chose five great seniors in the media field,
they were media experts specially selected by me,
 and I told them, “Listen, my area is management
and I know how to deal with money and you know
 the field of media, so if we disagree on a managerial issue,
the decision is mine, and if we disagree on an issue related 
to media, I respect your specialization and decision.
After that, I came up with an idea that did not exist,
 and most people do not follow it today,
that there is no need to build a studio.
 I wanted to build a satellite channel without a studio.
How can that be?
They said to me, that is impossible. 
You can't create a channel without a studio.
This is what I call a Suwaidani creation, so I told them
 that if they want a studio, we can rent a studio.
But the guests that we will host are from 
all over the world, If we build a studio,
for example, in Kuwait, we'll have to ask them to come
 to the studio and issue them a residence permit.
No, this will be difficult, so if we want Dr. Omar Abdelkafi
 to give lectures or present a program,
we can rent a studio in the Emirates next to his house, and he will film
 the program and finish it without the need for travel,
accommodation or costs, this is besides the costs 
of the director, lighting, etc., and the cost of devices,
so we were able to save from budgets.
Other channels wasted about 
forty percent money more than us,
so we were able to save this much money
 in this way, this is from the point of view of management.
As for the goal, it was very clear that we,
 and you know this as well as you are experts in the media.
-You are more knowledgeable than us in this field, of course. 
-The media has main objectives,
either education,
 awareness, entertainment, incitement, or information.
These are called functions. We have chosen 
that we are not a news channel, we are not a mobilization
or incitement channel like Al-Manar channel for Hezbollah.
We are a channel whose goal is to contribute
 to the change, not organizations and countries,
but the change of the individual and the human being.
 Our focus is on the individual and the human being.
How does a person change? 
A person changes when five things change.
Convictions, interests, skills, relationships, and role models. 
If you change these five, you change the person.
So we started building the programs 
and the plan, and we were planning the schedule
and you can never imagine how much
 time and effort it took from us,
I mean, we were planning for every quarter of an hour
 of the broadcast twenty-four hours,
planning 15 minutes would take us a day,
 and we would plan what we will air.
What do other competing channels broadcast 
so that there is no conflict?
So we would do the planning in such depth, 
and then we would study each program.
What would it change, will it change convictions
 and to what level, will it change interests or what?
We had intense planning, therefore, 
we were able, praise be to Allah, within three years,
that Ar-Resala channel becomes number sixteen
 on one thousand two hundred and sixty channels.
This is from the grace of Allah.
At that time there was no YouTube or social media?
-No, Youtube was there but it has just launched.
-YouTube was founded in 2006.
Yes, and we started in 2006, 
but we founded the channel in 2005.
So the opening was in 2006, 
and YouTube was not widespread at that time.
Yes, we had an opportunity thanks to that, but also
 a major part of our job was concerned with social media.
At that time we used to use the messages sent to
 the mobiles or the messages that appear on the news tape,
these were the most used, so I had specialized
 people managing this issue.
Now I want to move to another topic, 
and we will talk about Al-Resala channel later again,
because I want to stick with 
the timetable to maintain the listener's rights.
Now we want to talk about the Muslim Brotherhood.
 You have officially joined the Muslim Brotherhood, right?
-Yes. 
-You joined them while you were in America?
- I've joined them since I was young in Kuwait.
-Before you traveled to America?
-Yes, since high school.
- now how did you join the Muslim Brotherhood?
Regarding the Muslim Brotherhood, I want to correct some
 of the main ideas about them, because the media,
especially those hostile to the Brotherhood, 
they have created an unrealistic aura and idea about them.
It is important for me to correct this,
 and you are young and have a mind to judge after that.
The Muslim Brotherhood is not a Masonic group.
 In short, the Muslim Brotherhood is a Dawah group.
This is its basics, it is a group that call to Islam,
 and its member, what do they do?
They gather to read the Qur’an, learn about Sunnah,
 Hadith, and religious lessons, that it,
there is no al-Qaida plan, nor a plan to overthrow regimes. 
There is no such talk, this is all wrong.
So all that happens is that when we meet, 
they give us educational, behavioral and faith lessons.
It is thanks to them that I understood the true religion, not 
the traditional religion, I have a conscious understanding of it,
and I could see a religion in which there is tolerance, 
and in which there is compassion, mercy and love for man.
This is the Muslim Brotherhood in a nutshell.
 In the mosque near our house, there was a group of them,
and they invited me to attend their lessons, 
so I attended their lessons.
Practically, the process of entering the Brotherhood
 and leaving the Brotherhood is so easy and not complicated.
Now, I was just simply asking 
you who are the Muslim Brotherhood
and you told me that they are concerned 
with the religious aspect,
but today they are also concerned with the political aspect.
There has always been a political aspect, 
the Muslim Brotherhood understands Islam
according to what was founded by Imam Hassan al-Banna, 
may Allah have mercy on him,
especially what is mentioned in 'the twenty principles”.
From the beginning of understanding Islam, 
Islam is a religion and a state.
Islam is not a religion for individuals, it is also
 a religion for states, Islam is a comprehensive system.
There is a social aspect, a spiritual aspect, 
a physical aspect, a legislative and judicial aspect,
and a political aspect, this is part of Islam.
 If we cancel this part of Islam, Islam itself will deviate.
The Brotherhood understands Islam as a comprehensive religion,
and this understanding of its comprehensiveness is not found
 in other groups in the same way or vision.
The Tablighi group, for example, are not concerned with
 the political aspect at all and does not understand it.
As for the Salafis all over the world, 
they also do not believe in the political aspect.
unlike the ones in Kuwait who now
 understand that there is a political aspect,
and try to spread 
the importance of the political aspect
at the level of the Salafis in other countries.
But the Muslim Brotherhood understands Islam
 as a comprehensive religion. Are they a political party?
The answer is no, they are not a political party, 
they are a group that advocates comprehensive Islam,
when the Brotherhood began to enter more 
into the political side and engage in the elections,
I am one of the people who was and still is strongly demanding 
that this political work be separated from the work of the group,
you can't combine and balance these two sides.
By the way, I have a strange opinion regarding
 this, I am against Islamic parties.
Why?
Yes, the first thing is if there is a party called
 an Islamic party or call it whatever you like,
but it is known that this is the Islamic party in the country,
 the first problem is that it will give the impression
that the other parties are not Muslims.
This is not true, our people and even our competitors 
are Muslim people who love religion and love Islam.
This impression creates a problem, this is one.
The second thing is that those who run political action, 
including the Muslim Brotherhood,
are human beings and these human beings make mistakes, 
they violate and commit major sins and steal,
and even the Companions made mistakes.
The problem is when you have an Islamic party,
 and they make such mistakes,
people will not say so-and-so made a mistake, 
but people will say look at the Islamists and what are they doing?
Consequently, there will be a bad impression of Islam. 
Also, what is the reason for building an Islamic party?
What I mean is that there are people with great capabilities, 
and are even more competent than us
in many aspects such as economics or other things,
 and these are not part of the Muslim Brotherhood,
so the best solution is that we establish
 a party or movement that believes in values,
believes in development, and supports 
democracy and against corruption.
We are not the only ones who call for this,
 so the Islamic party will be attacked if it makes mistakes
and this will give a negative impression, 
so I am against establishing this party.
It's better to be part of a party 
that share the same values
this will reflect our respect for others 
who are not part of the Brotherhood,
for their specialization and capabilities 
and we can benefit from them,
this is what I believe should happen.
That is why I used to say, even for the Islamic
 Movement in Kuwait, I used to say
you should dissolve this party completely.
And when I met with our sheikh, 
Rashid al-Ghannouchi, in the Ennahda party in Tunisia, I said,
may Allah grant you the power to end this party,
and when I met with Omar al-Bashir, I advised him,
 may Allah bless you, you should resign from this position,
because you rule and people say this is the rule of the Islamists,
 look at their financial corruption and see how their party is.
I am a person who believes in Islam and I love Islam, and for me, 
the purity of Islam should not be touched by anyone,
even if the person from the Brotherhood or not.
 No one is allowed to wrench this purity,
so I believe that Islam will be exposed to such
 a thing by the existence of Islamic parties,
and therefore it is better to be part of another party
 rather than establish an individual party.
You spoiled many of our questions Dr. Tareq, I wanted to
 talk a little about this topic and give you some examples
but I did not expect this answer from you actually,
 but we still have other questions for you, Allah willing.
Allah willing.
Now Dr. Tareq, is there a pledge of allegiance? 
We hear that there is a pledge of allegiance.
Look, the pledge of allegiance in Islam has different types,
 it is not one type.
In Islam the pledge of allegiance had different types,
there is a pledge of allegiance to the caliphate,
 there is a pledge of allegiance to Islam,
i.e. entry into Islam as the Companions used to
 pledge allegiance to the Prophet,
also the pledge of allegiance over the caliphate,
but are these the only two types? No, there were other
 types of the pledge of allegiance,
for example, the Prophet, peace be upon him, 
asked a pledge of allegiance from fifty Companions
including Abu Bakr Al-Siddiq, may Allah be pleased with him,
 this pledge was for only fifty Companions
and it was over a group of matters, he agreed with them 
that their behaviour should be an example for other people.
he did not say it like this literally, 
but this is in conclusion,
and one of the points that were included 
in the pledge of allegiance was that
they should not ask or request anything from people
 for their own benefit.
Our master Abu Bakr is one of those who pledged
 allegiance and the hadith is in the Sahih.
One day, during his caliphate, he was riding on a camel,
 and the whip fell from him, so he dismounted.
He dismounted the camel and took the whip,
 then mounted the camel and continued.
The companions who were walking with him said,
 O Caliph of the Messenger of Allah, if you commanded us,
we would have given you the whip. He said, I pledged allegiance
 to my companion not to ask people for anything,
that is, to never request anything from anyone. 
So this is one type of pledge of allegiance,
as for the Muslim Brotherhood their pledge of allegiance 
is not for the caliphate or a Masonic allegiance,
or an allegiance over participating in a war. It is a pledge that
 we pledge to call to Allah Almighty, to adhere to Islam,
and that we do not deviate from it, 
this is the pledge of allegiance of the Brotherhood,
so they call it a special oath of allegiance 
and not a general allegiance.
Then with the days this issue was cancelled, it was
 in the beginning, but with the days, this issue no longer existed.
Ok, now Dr. Tareq, we want to talk about the Muslim
 Brotherhood from a more political point of view,
for the reason that today there is a certain 
image of the Muslim Brotherhood.
In particular, we want to understand if there
 is a project as they say all over the world,
a worldwide project in cooperation with 
the group in Tunisia and the group in Egypt,
and with the group in Kuwait before the invasion,
 there was a great planned project, is this true?
No, this is not true. Let me explain this briefly, the global organization
 of the Muslim Brotherhood is a coordinating entity.
That is, the relationship of the Brotherhood,
 for example, in Kuwait with the Brotherhood in Egypt
or the General Guide of the Brotherhood
 is merely for coordinating.
By Allah, we've never received an order from them
 in our lives, we do not need them to give us orders,
in the end, we know Kuwait more than them.
I have a brain to use so how can I 
receive an order about such a thing?
I don't need to ask them about a Sharia ruling because we also
 have our great scholars who understand Sharia.
The point is that we, who are interested in Islam, 
all of us merely coordinate our work with each other,
so that there is coordination in issues 
related to disasters sometimes or relief,
we coordinate for an issue related to, 
for example, the call to Allah in the West or elsewhere,
or establishing Islamic work in places
 where there was no Islamic work.
The Muslim Brotherhood established Islamic action
 in eighty-eight countries.
When we say Islamic action, we are not talking about
 politics or taking power, we are talking about a call.
People should appreciate and
 praise all of this instead of attacking us.
The media has created a fake image of the Muslim Brotherhood
 and said it's a global organization to take over the rule,
there is no such thing, this is the reality of the issue.
This exists on paper, but you say that
 behind this organization there are orders,
decisions and a hierarchical structure, no, there is no such thing.
What do you mean?
It means that on paper there is what is called 
the global organization of the Muslim Brotherhood.
And at that time people could join the organization
 and coordinate with each other,
it was just a coordination process. 
Today this no longer exists.
You mean there is no project to establish 
an Arab country under the rule of...
No there is no such thing.
Pardon me, but I just want to say, that praise 
be to Allah, Allah Almighty has honored me,
and I fear Allah Almighty more than you 
or your audience, what I say is true.
I'm just asking...
No, I'm just telling this to the audience,
 just so they can be reassured.
Listen, people can believe what I'm saying or not,
 they may think that I'm deceiving them.
or misleading them by covering things up. 
They are free to think whatever they want,
each person is free to believe what he wants, they say the burden
 of proof is on the claimant and the oath is on the denier.
Why is this idea exist? Why it is widely spread 
and many people are convinced by it?
As I told you, this thing exists on paper, at first this idea existed 
and it was in the beginning, but it was not executed.
Then, of course, there is the media
 hostile to the Muslim Brotherhood,
especially in Egypt or in some Gulf countries
 and it has a great influence.
Their media capacity is great, and the media capacity 
of the Muslim Brotherhood is very, very limited.
When you are attacked by this media with its great 
capabilities and you do not have the ability to defend yourself,
you will not be able to cancel
 this image they create, people who do not search
and verify news will believe what
 they hear from the media of course.
People are pardoned for believing such words,
 but in the end, our view of this is different,
people’s idea of us does not concern us. 
What matters to us is to attain the pleasure of Allah,
and we care about this nation and its development, 
it is important to us that we eradicate moral corruption,
financial corruption and political tyranny 
in our country. This is our goal.
This is what we aspire to, this is our goal,
 these goals do not mean that we are pure, do not sin,
and that our intention is not touched by the devil. 
No, we are, in the end, human beings,
and we all befall what befalls humans, 
and one makes mistakes and then asks for forgiveness.
But as they say, whoever doesn't appreciate your good 
intentions won't appreciate your beautiful deeds,
people will not look at our deeds, 
but we say to them, read our books,
look at our actions, look at our history, 
and see who we are.
In the end, this is me in front of you,
 this is my history, and this is my deeds and actions,
have you ever seen us do a terrorist operation
 or plan a coup against a regime?
You have not seen anything like that from us.
Let people believe what they want, what matters to us 
is that Allah Almighty is pleased with us.
Now, Dr. Tareq, I want to discuss this idea
 with you because I want to understand more.
- Go ahead.
 -I want to understand where did this spark and this idea come from?
Why is there media hostile to the Muslim Brotherhood today, 
where did all this begin and how?
No, look at me, this phenomenon is a natural phenomenon.
You are talking about a group that
 wants to resist political tyranny,
and because there are countries that are all 
based on political tyranny, they consider
that this group is a danger and threat to them,
 this is a group that wants to fight financial corruption,
and financial corruption has spread to many of our countries, 
and they consider this group a threat to them.
This group wants to be free from foreign interference, these are its goals.
There are people who obey the East and the West, 
this group aims to openly confront the Zionists,
but among us, there are people who prefer to be
 of the group of surrender, normalization and subjugation.
So, there is a conflict of ideas between us 
and them, and they own the money and the media,
so, of course, they will tarnish our reputation
 because we are a threat to them.
You are asking me now, are you really a threat to them? 
I say to you, yes, of course, we are a threat to them
because we will not abandon resisting tyranny,
 corruption, Zionists and the West interference,
we will not remain silent when we see this.
Because we consider that the renaissance of our nation 
will not happen in the presence of such things,
so we must resist them, so based on this, 
are we a threat to them?
Yes, we are an ideological danger to them, as for the issue
 of carrying out a coup or something like that,
these are the illusions of the regimes.
Even in countries where there is tyranny,
 the Muslim Brotherhood does not have this goal
that they want to take power by force or something like that.
This is not one of the Brotherhood’s goals, and by the way,
 Imam al-Banna’s made this clear that this is not our goal.
Look, if you want to know the opinions of the Brotherhood,
 read, but only the ideas of Hasan al-Banna.
By the way, people do not know much about
 the beliefs of the Muslim Brotherhood.
The only beliefs that have been approved for
 the Muslim Brotherhood are the writings of Hasan al-Banna
and only one book other than the book of Hasan al-Banna,
which is the book "Advocates not Judges" 
by Imam Hasan al-Hudaybi.
Even the beliefs of Sayyid Qutb were not approved, 
this is if someone said but Sayyid Qutb said this and that,
here I respond and say but Sayyid Qutb 
is not the thought of the Brotherhood.
The reference is the books of
 Al-Banna and Al-Hudaybi only,
this is what the people can judge us on.
Now when you go back to what Al-Banna wrote,
you will find that in his writings 
the Muslim Brotherhood is against coups
and that the Muslim Brotherhood is against revolutions,
 by the way, we know that these revolutions
will lead to destruction and calamities, but if the people 
choose this way, we are always with the people against tyranny,
but we will not start a revolution.
That is why the Muslim Brotherhood,
 for example, in the January Revolution,
the revolution took place on the twenty-fifth of January,
But the Muslim Brotherhood joined it after January 28, 
so do you understand me?
Because you have to choose whether 
to support tyranny or the people,
of course, we will support the people. 
But are we the ones who will carry out the revolution and the coup?
No, of course, these are all propaganda delusions
 of tyrannical states and media hostile to the Brotherhood.
Ok, Dr. Tareq, I want to understand the organization 
inside Kuwait a little more.
Now we have the Constitutional Movement in Kuwait
 and we have the Reform Association in Kuwait.
What is the difference between them?
 Are they the same?
Some say this is a social movement, 
and this is something else.
-Let's speak frankly, are they the same but with different labels?
- when the Muslim Brotherhood was established in Kuwait,
and they were officially founded by the way.
To explain to you, Abdulaziz Mutawa and
 Abdullah Ali Al Mutawa may Allah have mercy on them,
they met Hasan Al-Banna personally and brought
 these beliefs, the beliefs of the Brotherhood.
It was an official association in which senior people were known
 in Kuwait joined and were known for their religiosity.
It was named the Guidance Association and after
 that and turned into the Reform Association.
At that time there was no Constitutional Movement or anything else
and the Muslim Brotherhood has always been openly active in Kuwait
because Kuwait is a country in which there is freedom,
there is openness in it, there is love 
for religion and people are religious,
and the state itself is with religion and not against religion.
Therefore, there is no need to engage in secret
 work or to engage in sabotage.
There is no need for that, although there are no such
 sabotage acts even in countries of repression.
So what about a country where there is freedom like Kuwait? 
So the organisation was established in this simple way.
After that, with the days, the Brotherhood decided
 to enter politics because politics is part of religion.
So they began to nominate some people for political action, 
and they had their deputies, and they became interested in politics.
After that, they said, well, these deputies
 must have something in common,
so we established something
 called the Constitutional Movement.
I was one of the people who called who were calling for
 the separation of this political work from the advocacy work
but I'm not the one responsible for this separation. 
It's true that Islam is a comprehensive religion,
but we are not a comprehensive system.
I learned this when I was managing 
Al-Resala channel in particular.
When I started working in Al-Resala channel, because of 
my understanding that Islam is a comprehensive religion,
I produced cooking, sports and children’s
 programs on Al-Resala channel.
So we failed miserably, 
we could know this based on the viewership rating.
You know how the media world is, the measure
 of whether you are successful or not successful
in the media is the rate of viewership.
The rate of viewership was almost zero, and the media experts 
at Rotana and others with whom I consulted said to me,
Dr. Tareq, what you are doing is wrong,
 do not try to include everything in your channel.
I told them, but Islam is a comprehensive religion, they said,
Islam is comprehensive,
 but you are not.
it is not right to build one channel
 and include everything in it,
because you do not have the capabilities 
nor the experience to do so.
The same idea occurred in the progress 
of the work of the Brotherhood,
at the beginning when the number 
was small and the goals were simple,
they used to do everything and participate in all aspects.
But when their thought and number increased, an official call 
was proposed that we should separate political action
and no work should be done 
except through something official.
In the past, we used to gather in 
a house to read the Qur’an and give lessons.
But after that, all of this had to be cancelled because
 there became a group to organize such events,
and that work under an official permit,
so we demand that they separate the Islamic work 
from the political work and this was done thanks to Allah.
You asked me what is the difference,
The difference is that this Constitutional Movement 
is a political action, it has its entity, it has its work,
it has its leadership, and it has its members.
By the way, I am not a member of it, 
nor have I ever been a member of it.
And then there is the Reform Association.
The Reform Association is a charitable and relief advocacy
 association and then it began to grow more,
and have more branches which 
began to become independent,
so it's the one responsible for establishing 
Ar-Rahma and Namaa associations
These associations become independent 
ones after that, and it is the right thing,
every institution should have its own field of work
 and manage itself away from other institutions.
It's not right to try and manage everything
 by one organisation, there will be a lot of problems.
so today there are specialized institutions, 
and each institution is responsible for itself.
The disorganised work that was previously 
done is cancelled.
Today, there is no longer any action except
 through these platforms and institutions,
and any political action is done only through
 the Constitutional Movement.
This is the truth and the difference.
I support institutional work, and that every institution 
handles its specialization and field of work,
but the only institution that I am against 
in the Muslim Brotherhood is political action.
I mentioned to you my opinion that it is better to have a joint party
 with everyone who agrees with our ideas and goals,
there are very few ideas that we should focus on in political action, 
we want to preserve the constitution and democracy,
opposing financial corruption, and working 
for the development and renaissance of our country,
so anyone who shares these ideas, values and ethics with us, 
anyone who shares these ideas with us,
then we are on the same team, why do we need
 to have our own party? So this is the idea of all this.
Nice, now, Dr. Tareq, you are one 
of the Muslim Brotherhood members,
but what I understood from my friends 
is that you oppose many of their ideas.
I have weird ideas and thoughts.
You are opposing them in some beliefs, 
I heard a long time ago that they were always telling us
that Dr. Tareq was opposing the group
 in the prevailing opinion,
can you tell me some of the stories, 
and why you were opposing them?
Look, the first thing before we talk about this aspect, 
the Muslim Brotherhood are the ones who raised me,
and the Reform Association has the favour in raising me,
 and if it weren’t for them I might have another view.
I will never forget their favour, I mention them in my supplications
 and pray for them for the things they taught me.
Now we as humans understand Islam in different
 ways. Islam is not a straight line.
This is one of the main concepts that we must establish 
and understand all, everyone should understand,
the Muslim Brotherhood, the Salafists, 
and all people that Islam is not a straight line,
because if we consider Islam as a line then any point drawn 
to the right of the line or to the left of the line is a deviation.
Now, what is Islam? Islam is a stream like a river,
 it has a right bank and a left bank,
there is extremism and carelessness that deviates from Islam,
 but inside this river, there are thousands of lines,
there are lines closer to the right, closer to extremism and in lines
 closer to the left, which is leniency and deeper understanding.
Abu Jaafar al-Mansur, the second Abbasid caliph, had a very
 esteemed place in knowledge among the scholars by the way.
He was equal to Imam Malik in knowledge.
When he received the ruling and got distracted
 from learning and acquiring knowledge,
he summoned Imam Malik and met him.
He said to him, O Imam, today there is no one more
 knowledgeable on the face on this earth than you and me.
In other words, the senior scholars who are still alive are only 
you and me, and the demands of the caliphate
left me with no time to do any scholarly work, so you should 
write a book that could benefit people.
So he wrote the book Al-Muwatta, 
the first book on hadith, before Bukhari, before Muslim,
and before all hadiths, the first book 
inspired by whom? By Abu Jaafar al-Mansur.
After that what did he say to him, and this evidence, 
and it contains an answer to your question,
I did not forget your question, he said to him, “You should write 
a book that could benefit people.
In your book, you should avoid the concessions of ibn Abbas,
the sternness of ibn Umar and the peculiarities of ibn Maud. 
Make your book easy for people to follow.
Malik said: that day Abu Jaffar taught me
 the right way of writing.
He asked him to write a book which people can understand
 and is facilitating the religion for them, so he wrote Al-Muwatta
and Al-Muwatta is the most important book in the Maliki school 
of thought, which is the school of thought of the people of Kuwait.
I studied jurisprudence on the four schools of thought. 
I saw that the Maliki school is a moderate school,
and the Shafi’i school is likewise, 
it follows a moderate jurisprudence.
The Hanafis tend to be more lenient, 
and the Hanbalis tend to be more strict,
but this is in general. Now take these ideas
 and apply them to the Muslim Brotherhood.
The Muslim Brotherhood is a democratic movement.
It does not call to have a ruler for life, nor does it
 force you to follow its decisions and implement them
without being able to discuss them
 or express what you think
where you have to follow orders without discussion, 
and the Brotherhood does not follow this method.
Every person has the right to express his opinions, 
we can strongly disagree with you and this will not make us enemies.
We have an open heart to hear 
anyone and we follow this methodology.
I worked with one of the brothers
 for eight years, and in these eight years, Faisal,
for eight years, I only agreed with him three times, 
but I love him very much and he loves me very much to this day.
Do we still disagree with each other? 
Yes, of course, but we are friends.
So the Muslim Brotherhood has this attribute 
in them, and will hear others' opinions
and since I was one of the members and
 the leadership itself, I used to express my opinions.
My opinions are about the separation of political work,
and that our work should be only
 executed through the official state platforms,
that women should participate and be present
 in the same council and the same work leadership.
I do not believe that women's work and presence 
in the organisation should be separated from men's work.
The Muslim Brotherhood has not yet reached this point yet, 
but this is one of my ideas.
Of course, women can participate in
 elections and in leadership,
and it is their right to lead the state and become a caliph.
Also, one of the ideas that I would mention is that 
I am against establishing an Islamic party as our political front,
we can participate in politics but not as an Islamic party. 
These are some of my thoughts and beliefs.
The Muslim Brotherhood has a wonderful attribute, 
it is that you can disagree with them on major issues like this,
and remain part of them even
 as part of the leadership.
If you want to call the fact that 
I have different opinions an opposition you can
but I see that I'm in a democratic
 group that respects my opinions.
you have mentioned leadership more than once,
so what is the nature of leadership 
in terms of structure and general form?
All of this is cancelled now.
 In the beginning, there was a leadership that led the work,
and it is the one that organizes all the work. 
It's natural for any organized work to have leadership.
There was a leadership that was elected by the Brotherhood organizers.
 After that, with time, this issue was cancelled.
There is no leadership?
Today there is no leadership, and what
 exists today is that there are official institutions
such as the Reform Association, 
and those who elect its leadership are its members.
Official members registered in the state 
in the Reform Association are the ones who elect the leadership.
The leadership which leads the charitable
 work are also elected by its members,
and so is the one that leads
 the unions or the student work.
End each entity has its institutions, and the political 
work has its members and its elected secretariat,
so the work has become official work 
and this is the right thing to do,
it has become official work through state
 institutions and not any unofficial work.
You know how groups and even states start
 fragile with a vague form at the beginning,
but with the days they become more
 organized and have a clearer form.
The Brotherhood went through this experience, 
but now they have a clearer understanding,
and all the work they are doing 
is institutional and official work.
Dr. Tareq, one of the things that you presented and tried 
to change through Al-Resala channel is regarding the music,
it was at a time when there was
 sternness regarding hearing music.
Yes. Can you explain why? 
Why did you allow music?
Actually, I used to forbid any kind of music.
You forbid music?
I forbade music and even in my house
 no one was allowed to listen to music.
But after a while, when I interacted with senior 
scholars who were visiting me in America,
and hear what they say, I also began to look 
at the evidence for prohibiting music, and I stopped for a while
and noticed that there is no prohibition
 in the way others mentioned it.
firstly all the hadiths that forbid music are weak, 
there is only one hadith that is authentic.
All other hadiths including,
"whoever listens to a songstress, molten lead 
will be poured into his ears on the Day of Judgment",
are weak and our religion is not based on weak hadiths, 
you can't give a judgment or rule based on weak hadith,
we can only consider authentic and verified ones.
The only hadith is that, "there will come a time 
when people among my Ummah will make liquor, silk,
fornication and musical instruments halal (permissible)."
This is the only hadith that those who
 forbid music use to support their opinion.
I remember when I established Al-Resala Channel and played 
music in the programmes, five of my friends visited me...
Dr. Tareq, before continuing the story,
isn't this hadith clear evidence about 
the prohibition of musical instruments?
I'll talk about that now. As I was saying, five Saudi 
scholars and friends visited me, and they said,
we came to discuss this matter with you, since 
you presented a new thing in the Islamic media work.
Iqraa Channel introduced music before us of course,
 but we introduced it in a stronger form.
They said why are you using music? I told them, 
let us look at the hadith and then compare it with what I'm doing.
The hadith says, there will come a time when
 people from among my followers will make liquor,
silk, fornication and musical instruments halal (lawful),
 meaning something forbidden becomes lawful,
and here fornication means adultery, and its meaning
 is clear, and it mentioned silk, but is silk totally forbidden?
According to all schools of thought silk 
is forbidden on men, but lawful for women.
So it is prohibited for certain people, it's not 
a general prohibition. So silk has a special prohibition,
but does the musical instrument have a special prohibition 
or a general one? Is music whatever it is prohibited?
The hadith itself does not indicate that there
 is a special prohibition regarding silk or music,
but the hadith includes an element that
 has a special prohibition, right?
Right. That's why some scholars, such as Ibn Hazm
 saw that music has a special prohibition
and not a general one, and he said that it is prohibited 
when these things mentioned in the hadith come together.
That is, "There will come a time when
 people among my Ummah will make liquor,
silk, fornication and musical instruments lawful."
 This is the opinion of Ibn Al-Hazm.
Scholars have different interpretations of the hadith
 and whether music has a general prohibition
or a specific prohibition according to its use.
So I have the conviction that music is a tool,
 if I use it for good, then it's good and lawful,
and if used in a place of corruption then it is forbidden,
 if it arouses desires, then it is forbidden.
If it arouses patriotism and values, 
then it is lawful and even mandatory.
Another important point, I established Al-Risala channel 
with a very clear methodology,
I did not establish it to address religious people. The goal of
 Al-Risala channel is not to address a religious person.
Religious people have their own channels, books 
and scholars, but here I want to address a person
who is not attached so much to religion,
 who sometimes adheres to the Islamic rules and not always,
the one who prays sometimes and sometimes
 he does not, and this applies to the majority of people,
so I wanted to address these people.
Then I said to them, then consider that the matter 
of playing music is a doubtful matter,
and they said, of course, it is a doubtful matter.
Then I told them, okay, why don't we agree that
 I'll try to guide people to avoid the forbidden matters
but not the doubtful ones, I lead them to this point
 and you can be the ones to guide them away
from the doubtful matters and make them avoid them,
you can't ask me to do everything by myself while
 you only criticize me, this is not how things work.
Let me mention an example for you, I remember
 that a woman came to us in America,
I was the preacher of the mosque, the imam of the mosque, 
and the leader of the mosque,
and our mosque was one of the main mosques in America, 
so an American woman came to the mosque
and wanted to convert to Islam, but she had 
a big problem, her husband refused to convert,
she asked the brothers who were in the mosque before
 she asked me and they told her she should divorce him.
Yes, divorce him.
She said that she didn't want to break up with him and
 destroy her family, she loves him and he is her husband.
So this is the answer she got from the brothers, 
then I heard about this so I called for her and told her,
no, you can convert to Islam and stay with your husband.
The brothers then told me, 
but she is sinning if she does so.
Well yes, she is committing a sin but which
 is worse to commit haram or blasphemy?
Religion has priorities and religion has methodologies. 
Religion is not only decisions, religion has wisdom.
This is a philosophy, if you want to consider her an adulterer 
then do so, but she is committing this sin with who?
She is an adulterer with her husband in the end, not with a strange person.
Also, there are jurisprudential opinions that allow this
 in the first place, and some of them that you do not know,
but in the end, even if there is no jurisprudential ruling, 
even if she is committing the forbidden,
the matter is very simple, which is worse
 to commit haram or blasphemy?
When we understand religion with this
 awareness, we understand it better.
Whenever the Prophet was given an option between two things,
 he used to select the easier of the two. Easier for whom?
Not for himself but easier for the people. He was strict with himself,
 standing the night supplicating and praying,
but when he had to choose a matter
 for the people he would choose the easier one,
he wanted to facilitate religion for people
 and be compassionate with them.
Advocates don't understand that there
 is a difference between them and other people
when it comes to adhering to religious matters.
Now, do you expect that there will be
 female leaders in the Muslim Brotherhood in the future?
Of course, of course, and there are ones by the way.
Are there?
Yes, there are. Pardon me, but Kuwait
 and some countries are lagging behind
in the Islamic and Brotherhood work
 compared to the other part of the world.
Zainab al-Ghazali was one of
 the leaders of the Brotherhood in Egypt.
I met the leaders of the Brotherhood in
 Morocco and I sat in a meeting with them
and the supreme leadership of the Islamic Action in Morocco, 
and I'm telling you three women joined the meeting
and were part of the leadership, they were in the same meeting 
and room with us and they didn't sit separately.
So, of course, the world has changed. In Malaysia and 
other countries the ones who lead the Islamic Party,
I mean the Justice Party in Malaysia, its name was 
not the Islamic Party, but the Justice Party,
it was Anwar Ibrahim and when he was in prison, 
his deputy was Aziza, Anwar Ibrahim's wife.
The world has changed and Islamists have accepted
 that women should participate in political work.
We in the Gulf in particular, by virtue of customs 
and traditions, have not yet accepted this fact,
but with time we will accept this and change.
I think that this change will be like
 a stain on the Muslim Brotherhood.
some people say that 
the change of opinions regarding certain matters
especially Islamic ones is a weakness, they are building
 their judgments based on Islamic evidence,
and use this evidence to alter things
 however they like and make the forbidden lawful,
do you understand what I mean?
One time a man told me, Dr. Tareq, two years ago I heard 
opinions from you other than these opinions you say today
I am afraid after two years when I meet you I'll hear 
different opinions other than these now.
I told him, I swear by Allah, I promise you that 
after two years I will have different opinions.
If you want me to have the same opinions then that means
 that you do not want me to develop or change or understand.
I am now still a seeker of knowledge and during my quest
 for knowledge, I discover new things in Islam.
I do not know everything about Islam, I do not know 
all the rulings or jurisprudence,
or all the doctrinal opinions. 
Yes, I do not know everything.
The deeper I go, the more I learn. When I learn new things, 
my opinions begin to change, so I propose new views.
Imam Al-Shafi’i, who is one of the four great imams,
he had an Iraqi school of thought 
and an Egyptian school of thought, why?
Because when he was in Iraq
 he had certain jurisprudential opinions,
but when he went to Egypt 
he changed his jurisprudential opinions,
and therefore when anyone studying Shafi’i
 jurisprudence notes there the Iraqi
and Egyptian jurisprudence of Shafi’i, 
so even Shafi’i changed his opinions.
Changing opinions is a beautiful point that indicates 
a person’s willingness to develop, create, be aware,
and accept the other’s opinion and accept change,
or do you want a person to be rigid
 and stick to his opinion, this is not acceptable.
If you don't have the capacity to change
 your opinion when there is a better opinion
then this is backwardness, this is not an improvement.
Why don't you see that this is weakness, that whoever changes
 his mind is weak, this is what we all think in our society.
No, we must make people understand that this is wrong and
 that being able to change your mind is a beautiful quality,
it is not a wrong thing, provided that a person changes 
his mind because of evidence and established argument,
and he has evidence for it, not because of their desire or wishes. 
Let's suppose that I have certain opinions today,
for example, I used to think that the beard should be long, 
I used to think this is what should be,
and my beard was really long, but after researching
 the legal evidence, I discovered that this is not obligatory.
Now, in this case, should I stick to my opinion? 
So, the willingness to adopt something new,
accepting evidence and proof, and even development 
and creativity, is a beautiful quality.
Why do we fight it? We must fight rigidity,
and fight sticking to the opinion by virtue
 of the fact that this is my previous opinion,
and what if this is your previous opinion, what is its value?
In the end, you and I, Faisal, and all the viewers 
and our scholars are all human beings,
and we as humans are constantly learning,
 constantly evolving, and constantly changing.
Rigidity is wrong and I am a fan of creativity, 
all of my companies have the name creativity in them by the way.
In the end, let us encourage creativity
 and not encourage rigidity.
All clear. Dr. Tareq you mentioned that 
one of the main things that exist,
that is, one of the main beliefs of the Muslim Brotherhood 
is that they are against foreign intervention.
of course.
When you talk about foreign intervention,
 and I expect you know what I will be asking about,
which is regarding Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait in 1990,
at that time, the Brotherhood was like 
any other group and like the Arab nationalists,
they were against foreign intervention.
What was the opinion and position of the Brotherhood in Kuwait
and in the Arab world? 
I want you to explain to me what happened.
This issue is so simple, there is thought and
 there is reality, and these do not always meet.
Sometimes we adopt opinions that are ideal but in reality, 
they cannot be applied, in reality, they cannot be applied.
When the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait happened, 
of course, this is a great crime, and all Kuwaitis,
and I am one of them, were against this.
By the way, I was the founder of the International 
Organization for Solidarity with Kuwait,
which was one of the most important bodies 
that worked from day one to support Kuwait,
and we held the first conference
 in the whole world against the invasion.
I organized and managed it,
 on 30 August 1990, it took place in Washington,
it was not the embassy that organized it nor the secularists.
I was the one who organized and ran it, and the tapes are there.
Some people claim that it did not take place, but that's not true,
 I organized it and I chose the presenters,
arranged with them, chose the hotel and everything else.
In the end, no one is allowed 
to question our patriotism or doubt us.
Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait 
is a crime against Kuwait and a crime against Islam.
Because the Islamic action lost a huge loss because
 of the dictatorial state that occupied Kuwait,
as Kuwait is a free democratic country and one 
of the best countries in supporting Islamic action.
We have lost a great loss, and we are against this invasion.
 Now, how could Kuwait be liberated?
Of course, any rational person knows 
that Kuwait cannot be liberated by Arab forces.
Why is that?
Because we don't have enough power.
Egypt has power.
Will Egypt bring all its forces to Kuwait to
 fight for Kuwait in order to fight Iraq?
It will not do that, nor will this happen from 
a practical or even political point of view.
America with all its might took 
a long time to liberate Kuwait.
Ideally, we should be against 
any foreign interference in our country.
The Muslim Brotherhood in the world words were clear,
 they said we are against the invasion of Kuwait
and against foreign interference.
By the way, this was also my opinion, I am against the invasion 
of Kuwait and against foreign interference.
The Kuwaitis considered that this is a call not to liberate Kuwait. 
No, it is not a call to not liberate Kuwait,
we called for the liberation of Kuwait, and we were ready
 to go and fight for the liberation of Kuwait.
We are clearly against the invasion of Kuwait,
but when you ask me, do you support foreign 
intervention in our country? I tell you no I'm against it.
Now if you ask me, as a rational person, was it possible
 to force Iraq out of Kuwait without international forces?
The answer is no. This is the reality, this was not 
possible except with international forces.
You can tell people that you have to cancel and forget your ideal opinion 
and discard it for the sake of the realistic opinion.
No, you should know that they are aware that foreign
 intervention should happen and they accept it
but that does not mean their opinion
 regarding this matter will change or has to change,
we are against intervention
 and with the liberation of Kuwait.
Because of this, some people doubted us and our intentions.
Our intention was clear, and we have principles,
 we are against tyranny, we are against Zionism,
we are against foreign interference, 
and against corruption.
These are principles for us.
Do not tell me to give up on them, but if you want 
to know what should happen in reality I will tell you that
the only solution to end the invasion
 was through foreign interference.
And you were a staunch supporter of the American
 entry into Iraq in 2003, or you were not?
No, no, listen to me. There is what
 is called idealism and there is reality.
I answered you before, I am against the presence 
of foreign intervention in our countries.
And against the return of colonialism to Kuwait
 and Iraq, so you ask me, then, what is the solution?
at that time, this was the only solution.
this also applies to what happened in 2003. Yes, it's the same.
Of course, there is no solution other than this.
In the end, the goal of this interference
 was the disposal of Saddam Hussein.
I wished they would continue and enter Syria 
and expel Bashar after it not only eliminating Saddam,
because who will get rid of these dictators?
We have seen what did Bashar do in his country
 and no one could oust him from his position,
and no one overthrew him,
 in the end, no one was able to get rid of him.
So the intervention of this global power
 in the end is what should happen in reality,
but in principle, I am against foreign
 intervention anywhere.
Yes, you made your point clear. Dr. Tareq,
 we want to talk about one last thing,
Swear by Allah, is it the last one?
-If you allow me
-No, of course, feel free, I don't mind at all.
-I'm afraid I'm going to tire you out.
-No, I am not tired, I am young, thank Allah.
Now when we talk about the Arab Spring, we know that you,
 and I have been following you since I was young,
and I know that all of your lectures were packed, 
and you were welcomed in the Arab countries with arms open,
but after that, when the Arab Spring began, 
there were restrictions on you in the media and socially.
Even today some countries prevented you from entering them.
I want to understand what happened in the Arab Spring 
that caused to turn all these scales and wage war against you.
No, the case is not that they are against me.
The first thing you need to know is that Tareq Al-Suwaidan 
is not the one who started the Arab Spring,
managed the Arab Spring, or moved it, okay?
I supported the Arab Spring, because of a principle that 
I mentioned to you, I have my principles,
one of which is that I'm against tyranny,
 this is one of my principles.
Our nation cannot rise and stop the backwardness that
 has existed for four hundred years except by abolishing tyranny.
As long as there is tyranny, the nation will
 not rise. This is a principle I believe in.
Now, how does this tyranny disappear? This has ways, 
and we prefer the democratic way,
that it disappears with the popular majority and popular pressure,
 as it changed in England, for example.
It is not a revolution but pressure 
on the regime. So there are ways to do so.
Even the West has experienced this and used these ways.
England got rid of tyranny through popular pressure,
 they forced the king to give up his powers,
and with time, Elizabeth or Richard
 became only an image and have no powers.
This change took place in Britain, while in France
 there were three bloody revolutions,
and the struggle between democracy and
 monarchy continued for eighty-eight years,
then it became a country with a system that
 is considered one of the top democracies in the world.
So these are the ways to change these regimes. 
We are against the coup and against the revolution.
We do not wish this to happen because
 we know there will be destruction.
We wish for the people to follow the democratic way. 
But if there are tyrants, they oppress the people
not only when they demand democracy, but even when
 the people demand their basic rights, then we will support them.
Nevertheless, I am against revolutions, but if people
 start a revolution, then we will support them.
Now you want me as an influencer, 
do you want me to stand by? That's not acceptable
because people look at me and wait for my opinion,
 and for some young people I am a role model
and role models should not stay silent in these times.
This is a major principle, except he who is compelled
 while his heart is peaceful with belief.
i.e. he says something while being forced.
This is permissible for the weak, but the person who is considered
 a role model or influencer should not remain silent,
because this will confuse matters for people.
As an ordinary person, you will 
not know the right religious opinion in this case.
So I did not have the option of remaining silent, 
and I did not have the option not to support these revolutions,
so I supported them, I supported them everywhere.
People have the right to rule by their decision, 
to preserve their dignity and pride,
and to prevent tyranny and prevent its corruption.
So my support for the revolutions and the ones
 that did not succeed caused this fight against me.
naturally, when tyrants returned to power, they tried to take 
revenge on any person who supported the revolution,
Of course, for me, the harm that occurred to me was very simple.
When I was prevented from entering
 a certain country, it did not affect me much,
because they could not prevent me from spreading my ideas.
You cannot prevent spreading thought, for example,
 I used to give a lecture in a country
and the number of attendees may be five thousand, 
but now even if I am prevented,
I can spread the thought through social media.
A single tweet can be seen by a hundred thousand.
You can't prevent others from 
spreading thought.
Actually, nothing happened to me compared 
to people who were imprisoned for ten years.
For example, there are people 
in different countries, such as the Gulf,
who have been imprisoned for ten years to the extent that
 some people have forgotten them, but we have not forgotten them.
When I am threatened that I will be restricted from
 some activities or so for expressing my opinion or support,
I say that the word of truth has a price, and the person 
who believes in the truth must bear this price.
Also, praise be to Allah, we did not suffer anything major,
 and praise be to Allah that I am Kuwaiti.
Because a person in Kuwait can speak and express, 
it is a country of freedom, in which there is a law,
institutions, dignity, and a constitution.
Because of this situation, I had a duty to speak up
 because I am able to express my opinion.
While others, if they spoke, they could be killed or harmed, 
or even their family would be harmed like what actually happened.
It was my duty, O Faisal, to support these revolutions.
 The restriction I faced after that was nothing major,
and thank Allah I did not yield, and I will not give up my principles 
and I will not support any tyranny in order to please them,
what I desire is the satisfaction of Allah Almighty 
and my priority is defending the rights of people.
Dr. Tareq, you did not support the idea
 of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt interfering
in the government and rule after the revolution in Egypt.
No, of course, I am against them taking over the power
 and against me interfering in the rule, I travelled and met them.
The revolution took place in January and I travelled in April, 
I told them listen to me, by Allah I master analysis,
I wrote seventy strategic plans and I am the author 
of two books on strategic planning.
You will be asked to take over the rule,
 do not accept this because you will be in a big problem
and this will cause trouble for the Islamic work.
At that time, if you look closely at history, 
you will find that in fact the Brotherhood had decided not to rule.
That was in April and they announced 
that they didn't want to interfere in the government.
After that, they changed their mind, which was one 
of the main mistakes the Brotherhood made in Egypt,
So whether it was the candidacy of Khairat al-Shater at the beginning,
and then the candidacy of Morsi, in my opinion, 
this was all wrong and a huge mistake.
Listen to me, this does not apply only to the Brotherhood,
but anyone or any party that tries to govern after 
a revolution or war will not succeed.
For example, Churchill, the world champion, 
had it not been for the steadfastness that Churchill withstood,
the world would now have German 
as the main language, not English, see?
Churchill after World War II,
 didn't he run for elections and didn't win?
It is a mistake for anyone to expect that
 he will succeed after a revolution or war. Why?
Because people have high expectations,
 and your capabilities are limited,
and the government that you received is a disaster, 
so you cannot, with the heavy pardon that you got,
and the limited potential that you have you can't face
 the expectations of the people, and you will fail.
The solution is that you make the government for the people,
 and no party is allowed to take over the rule.
So, this is one of the mistakes that
 the Brotherhood made, a major mistake, indeed.
Dr. Tareq, you were walking in
 a minefield after the Arab Spring...
It's nice to walk through a minefield.
How did you feel at that time, I mean there were regimes
 fighting you, and you are, in the end,
a person who does not have
 the capabilities that they have.
First of all, tell me about your feeling about this in general, 
and secondly, I want to know practically what you faced.
That is, the things that we did not know or hear about.
No, praise be to Allah, there is nothing major. 
You asked about how I felt, but honestly, I was not bothered
and was entertained and still am. I am one of the people 
whose mind governs my emotions,
and I deal with everything with reason. I control them
 with my mind including human psychological emotions.
Yes, we have feelings, and we have emotions,
 but I do not allow them to control me.
I believe that a person can control his feeling 
and I am the type of person who controls my emotions.
A person once asked me, don't you have any feelings, 
I said to him, “I have feelings, but I can control them.”
He who does not have feelings is a dull person. 
So I was entertained by the actions they executed against me.
I enjoy it when I say a word that annoys a tyrant, 
also when I say a word of truth to a tyrannical sultan,
I don't care what he will do
 to me even if he kills me.
Look at what the Master of Martyrs
 narrated, isn't this included in the hadith,
one of the best martyrs is a man who stood before
 an unjust imam to advise and warn him, so he killed him.
So even if they wanted to kill me I won't yield. I will be 
the master of the martyrs, not just a martyr, I do not mind.
Now you ask me what is the actual harm.
 There is no actual harm, praise be to Allah.
The harm was the loss of Al-Resala channel that I was running
 and the restriction on my entry to a group of countries only.
There is nothing else, praise be to Allah. I am still moving and 
I am still publishing and my books are still spreading and selling,
and my media programs are continuing. It is true that
 they restricted me from showing up on some channels,
but it turned out for the best because
 this was replaced by social media.
Before the Arab Spring, the number of my followers 
on Facebook and Twitter was one and a half million,
now I have eighteen million, so it benefited me in the end.
If I stayed on Al-Resala channel, how many people would
 watch me? Only one or two million,
today we have stronger tools, so it is true that 
I lost some tools, but I acquired other tools,
it is true that I was prevented from entering some countries,
 but my ideas still reach the people,
it is true that my courses and lectures
 were banned, but we used Zoom instead.
Believe me, this is not acting, nor it is caused 
by a lack of emotions, No, I am really entertained, thank Allah,
I am really happy and relaxed to see that I'm bothering them.
Some people may say that when he returns home, 
he will express his distress and suffer silently,
but this does not apply to me, and my mentality 
has not been affected, praise be to Allah.
As for Al-Resala channel, Did they dismiss Dr. Tareq Al-Suwaidan 
because he belongs to the Muslim Brotherhood?
Of course, but look, I worked with his highness, 
Prince Alwaleed for eight years, and he is a wonderful man
and despite my disagreement with him, 
he is a unique man, and I learned a lot from him.
what did you learn?
I learned management from him, I learned money management,
 I learned a new way of thinking
and I learned how to deal with the people
 in power, I learned a lot from him.
He is a truly unique man, but his highness Prince Alwaleed 
has interests, and he has to maintain his interests.
For example, the presence of someone like me 
working with him will affect his interests in Egypt
after the military ruled and the coup happened, if I stayed 
by his side he would have lost his business and interests,
so he needed to choose between
 Tareq Al-Suwaidan or cling to his interests.
I am also a human being, and I understand that 
these are his choices and that he did not dismiss me
because he discovered that I am from the Muslim Brotherhood.
By Allah, from the first day, I told him, I will be a burden 
to you if you chose me to work in Al-Resala channel.
He asked me why and I said that 
I am in the leadership of an Islamic movement
I am a burden on you.
 He told me I'm also a burden on you
because I have a Rotana channel and
 the problems I'm facing with it will affect you.
We know and understand each other, we respect 
each other and we each have our own ideas
and we agree and disagree on many things.
Even when he dismissed me from the Al-Resala channel,
 I understood why he did so,
because in the end he is a man who must take care 
of his interests and he is, in the end, a businessman.
What was my reaction to this? You can look back and 
see that on the same day I posted a tweet
that was published in the newspapers
 and published by the BBC and other channels.
In the tweet I thanked his highness the prince for
 the opportunity he gave me to lead Al-Resala channel
and reach this level of success, 
and I only hope that they will continue their success.
Indeed, I thank him for this opportunity. He gave me 
a historic opportunity, it is his right to act in his best interest,
this is his channel, and this is his property,
 he has the right to choose who can manage it.
Also, he is a businessman and he has
 the right to exclude those who affect his work.
We are rational people who understand reality, we are not led
 by emotions, and we will not say why he did this to me.
This is how weak people act, not the strong ones.
It is clear that you have the ability 
to control your emotions through your mind,
how were you able to reach this point and control 
your emotions, how did you do this?
I can't say I learn this from scratch,
 part of it is actually instinctive.
Part of it, but most of this is due to
 what I learned from mathematics and geometry,
and from what I learned from studying philosophy
 and studying logic, this formed this ability.
Nice! Dr. Tareq, the last question regarding this idea.
 You mentioned more than once that you were banned
from entering some countries such as the Gulf 
and it is clear why the banned you.
But you are also banned from entering Western countries?
I do not know about America, 
but I know that Britain banned you.
I'm banned in America, Britain, Australia and New Zealand. 
Why? Because of my stance against Zionism.
In short, I was banned in the Arab countries
 because of my stances against tyranny,
especially against the coup in Egypt 
and most of the bans happened after the coup in Egypt
and my staunch stand against the coup in Egypt.
As for the Western countries, 
I was banned because of my writings, because of my stance,
and because I support Hamas, and fight Zionism.
For example, I currently have one hundred and
 twenty-five books, and my book The History of Palestine
is number one in sales and 
has been translated into seven languages,
and my book The Encyclopedia of the Jews
 contains an exposé of the Jews in every aspect.
These stances disturbed the Jews and still disturb them, 
and I'm happy that I disturb them,
because these are criminals who are committing
 falsehood, injustice, tyranny, corruption and racism,
and anyone with a clear principle will stand against them.
 I expressed my opinion on this matter
and I'm still sticking to it. Was I prevented because I committed
 a crime? No, I was not prevented because of a crime.
What did they tell you?
-They didn't say anything.
-You contacted them and they said nothing?
Praise be to Allah, there is no case against me 
and I did to commit any violation in all these countries.
So they just say you are banned or just refuse 
to issue a visa for you?
Yes, of course, some countries did not give me a visa and 
in some countries, I was banned from entry at the airport.
New Zealand?
New Zealand banned me when I was at the airport, 
and Jordan also, and Saudi Arabia informed me also at the airport,
and so did the Emirates. This did not cause me a problem, 
now I can give my lectures on the Internet with a larger audience.
I'm glad you were with us today.
-Me too.
-Thank you for coming.
I really salute you for your calm 
and gentle way of managing the dialogue.
Dialogues of this kind are usually based on emotions,
stirring up emotions and provoking in order 
to increase viewership, this is a podcast of high quality.
Thank you for your kind words
May Allah bless you and thank you very much, and I thank 
Ms. Munira who prepared the program for her efficient work.
It is clear that your work is well-prepared.
it is true that they closed 
some doors for us and banned us the entry to some countries,
but you opened your door for us
 to reach tens of thousands of people.
Our doors are open to everyone. 
We understand everyone and hear from everyone.
Thank you for your presence. Thank you for being with us.
Thank you all, we are honored by you, may Allah bless you.
Thank you
